Deacon Manual
       Principles of Deaconship

              Pastor Bernie G. Garcia

              Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc
          1241 East Baseline, Phoenix, AZ 85040-8005
     Office: 602-276-6069 * 602-276-0081 Fax: 602-304-1621



                     Second Edition - August 2007




Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a
faithful man who can find? The just man walketh in his
integrity: his children are blessed after him. Proverbs 20:6-7
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007



                                            Table of Contents

     Operations of Church Offices……………………………………….5
     Definition of Manual………………………………………………...9
     Attitude……………………………………………………………..10
     The History of Deacon……………………………………………...11
     Qualifications for Deacons…………………………………………13
     The Rewards of Faithful Service…………………………………...16
     Deacon’s Mission Statement……………………………………….17
     Ushers & Deacons………………………………………………….18
     What is a Minister…………………………………………………..18
     Placing of Deacons…………………………………………………19
     Church Order - COD Supplement………………………………….26
     Pastor’s Assistants………………………………………………….35
     Responsibilities of a Deacon……………………………………….35
                       A Place of Worship, Holy, Consecrated……………...52
                       Fasting………………………………………………...57
                       Two Opinions…………………………………………61
                       God’s Commission……………………………………61
                       In the Line of Duty……………………………………62
                       Confronting Sin with Love……………………………65
                       Handling a Compliant………………………………...71
                       Do Not Send the Pastor……………………………….72
                       Keep Your Eyes on Christ…………………………….74


     Phoenix Tabernacle Church Order………………………………….75
     Lexicon Definitions……………………………………….………...83
              Sober…………………………………………………………83
              Deacon……………………………………………………….84


      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page2
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

              The Seven Appointed Deacons………………………………85
              Deaconess……………………………………………………86
              Elder…………………………………………………………86


     The Man In The Arena……………………………………………...87
     Church Order 1963-1226…………………………………………...88
     Guidelines for Deacon Department Positions……………………..126
     Service Program Procedural Checklist……………………………146
     Back Office Position Template……………………………………150
     Communion Procedures…………………………………………...151
              Communion Service………………………………………..157
              Communion Sign Up Sheet………………………………...158


      Funeral Procedures……………………………………………….159
              Sanctuary…………………………………………………...161
              Parking Lot…………………………………………………166
              Gravesite……………………………………………………168
              Funeral Checklist…………………………………………...170
              Planning A Funeral…………………………………………171
              Announcement of Death……………………………………171
              Planning the Service Program……………………………...172
              Memorial Service…………………………………………..173
              Internment Service…………………………………………175
              Gravesite Service…………………………………………..176
              Helping Attend the Family of the Deceased……………….177
              Funeral Viewing Service Sign Up Sheet…………………..178
              Funeral Internment Service Sign Up Sheet………………..179
              Funeral Gravesite Service Sign Up Sheet………………….180




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page3
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     Counseling Code of Conduct……………………………………...181
              Conflict………………………………………………….….183
              Rules To Follow To Help Resolve Conflict………………..187
              Counseling Report……………………………………….….193


     References…………………………………………………………195
     Notes…………………………………………………………….…196




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page4
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




     OPERATIONS OF CHURCH OFFICES
                                         AS WERE RECOMMENDED

                                                             BY

                                 REV. WILLIAM MARRION BRANHAM

                                                            FOR

                                      THE BRANHAM TABERNACLE

     PASTOR                                                                              ASSOCIATE PASTOR
     Rev. William Branham                                                                Rev. Armand Neville


     AGREEMENT AND OPERATION OF OFFICES

     The following agreements and the operations of the present offices in power at the
     Branham Tabernacle are compiled below. It is to enlighten the present members who
     now attend the worship services at the Branham Tabernacle; as to the proper function
     of each office. That we may agree as one united body, understanding each others
     position as we work together to forward the kingdom of God.

     THE OFFICE OF THE PASTOR

     The office of the pastor is to conduct and act upon any program of which he believes
     to be according to the plan of God, according to the Word of God, for the Branham
     Tabernacle. He shall assume supreme authority and meet promoting for the spiritual
     welfare of the church. He shall be head of the associate pastor, the deacon board, the
     trustee board, an the church body itself. Acting in wisdom to lead God's saints,
     manifesting love toward all the saints and their burdens. Conducting himself in
     perfect servitude, of which God has called and placed him to act upon.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page5
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     THE OFFICE OF ASSOCIATE PASTOR
     The associate pastor to the Branham Tabernacle, is to perform and carry out the
     duties of the pastor, in his absence. To conduct worship services according to the
     manner of doctrine believed and practiced by the Branham Tabernacle. He shall be
     invested with the same power as the pastor is, meeting all responsibility of the
     church, and acting in full authority to keep the church in order. He is to manifest deep
     concern to all the burdens of the saints and fulfill the commission of which God has
     called him to, as a shepherd. He shall account at various times the progress of the
     church, spiritual matters present, and problems that may be pressing, to the pastor. He
     shall not undertake any business transactions without first presenting it to the pastor,
     the exact transaction.

     THE OFFICE OF THE TRUSTEES
     The body of men, shall govern the welfare of the church as a business group. They
     are elected to protect the church in it's financial matters, it's business investments, the
     supervision of it's properties, and it's expenditures. They shall strongly consider every
     move of progress, step by step, which involves church funds. For they shall be
     responsible to keep the church from indebtedness, and the saints from burdens that
     are too great to bear financially. In the undertaking of any project, regardless what it
     is, they are to bring the matter to the pastor, consultation by the pastor, consultation
     by the pastor only for every financial project the church wishes to invest or engage
     itself therein is absolutely required.

     THE OFFICE OF THE DEACONS
     The office of deacons, as elected according to the Word of God and the manner of the
     Branham Tabernacle, is to act as an office of spiritual assistance to the pastors. They
     are to assist the pastors on all of his spiritual activities. They are given free speech in
     presenting to the pastors any program or benefits that would bless the general and
     spiritual welfare of the church. They must be apt to teach, and ready to assist the
     pastor or associate pastor on every duty if called to do so. They shall assist in serving
     communion. They shall be acting ushers in all services. They shall police the church,
     in keeping civil order and conduct. They shall assist in taking local offerings. They
     shall oversee the spiritual conduct of the church in working with the pastor and one
     another on spiritual problems and matters of the saints. They shall be ready at
     anytime to assist the need of every saint who is burdened and in need of
     spiritual consultation, or general welfare. They have not the right to act upon any
     program or promotion without agreement with one another, the pastors, or the


      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page6
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     trustees if the program they are considering doing involves church funds. They will
     be responsible before God for their conduct and manner of service, according to the
     Word of God. They shall not have meeting among themselves without the pastor or
     associate pastor present.

     THE OFFICE OF THE TREASURER

     The responsibility of the treasurer is to provide an exact account of the financial
     status of the present funds in the treasury. This report is to made available to the
     pastor or the board of trustees, upon their request of such a report. No other office in
     the church may have access to this information. He may obtain such information
     from the trustees report given to him by the treasurer. The treasurer shall sit in on
     every trustee meeting to take notes and minutes of actions taken by the board of
     trustees. He has not the authority to convey or acknowledge the financial status
     information to any acting office in the church but the pastor or board of trustees. He
     shall not be a consultant in spiritual matters, nor is it of need that he should attend
     meetings of the deacons. Unless asked to by the pastor.

     THE OFFICE OF SUNDAY SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT

     The office of Sunday school superintendent is of vital importance to the church.
     Though his duties are not major, he is responsible to keep the childrens classes with
     teachers and supplies that pertain to teaching. He shall undertake to appoint teachers
     to their rooms assigned to them. He shall, in the absence of a Sunday school teacher,
     appoint another teacher to take the place of the one absent from duty. He shall watch
     carefully that the time element of the classes beginning and closing does not interfere
     with the worship service. He shall present the needs of Sunday school supplies to the
     board of trustees, who will advise him concerning the funds needed for supplies. He
     shall not direct the teachers themselves, only assigning them to their classes. He shall
     not undertake any program without consulting the pastor, for the Sunday school
     department solely. He is not required to sit in on deacon board meetings, nor on
     trustee meetings. He is free from any responsibility as that pertaining to a deacon or
     trustee, that all his time may be given to supervise the Sunday school, with devout
     interest.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page7
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     THE OFFICE OF MUSIC PROGRAM

     The music program and all order pertaining to the development of such a program is
     under the supervision of the pastor only, and the associate pastor. During regular -
     services, special meetings, or revivals, at all times, the pastors shall advise and
     conduct this program. The trustee board shall advise on the purchasing of any
     musical instruments and the pastor shall be consulted. Any suggestions for musical
     programs by the saints, deacons, or such parties interested should be presented to the
     pastor, who will welcome them, and advise on such suggestions. It is preferred the
     pastor shall control this program, as he is the leader of the worship service, and
     confidence is placed in his ability to lead the church in worship that is most pleasing
     to God. Music programs, testimony services, addresses by various parties, reports to
     the church by various offices, or any program that intervene the worship time should
     be under the pastors supervision.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page8
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                              2007

     MANUAL -- (a small handbook)
          consuetudinary, consuetudinal -- (a manual describing the customs of a
           particular group (especially the ceremonial practices of a monastic order))
          instruction manual, instructions, book of instructions, operating instructions --
           (a manual usually accompanying a technical device and explaining how to
           install or operate it)
          reference manual -- (a manual containing information organized in a summary
           manner)
          handbook, enchiridion, vade mecum -- (a concise reference book providing
           specific information about a subject or location)
          manual -- (a small handbook)
          bible -- (a book regarded as authoritative in its field)
          guidebook, guide -- (something that offers basic information or instruction)
              Source: WordNet 1.6 Vocabulary Helper: manual http://www.notredame.ac.jp/cgi-bin/wn?manual#Overview of noun manual




              HANDBOOK
              Pronunciation: -"buk Function: noun Date: before 12th century

              1 a : a book capable of being conveniently carried as a ready reference :
              MANUAL b : a concise reference book covering a particular subject 2 a : a
              bookmaker's book of bets b : a place where bookmaking is carried on 8 1999 by
              Merriam-Webster, Incorporated




              MANUAL
              1. a small book for handy use. a. In the mediaeval Church, a book containing
              the forms to be observed in administration of the sacraments. Late ME. b. A
              handbook 1533. 2. Nourishment; food divinely supplied, esp. The Holy
              Communion, late ME.
              OXFORD Dictionary




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                                 Page9
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




                                            ATTITUDE
     The longer I live, the more I realize the impact of
     attitude on life. Attitude, to me is more important
     than facts. It is more important than the past,
     than education, than money, than circumstances,
     than failures, than successes, than what other
     people think or say or do. It is more important
     than appearance, giftedness, or skill. It will make
     or break a company, a church, a home. The
     remarkable thing is that we have a choice every
     day regarding the attitude we will embrace for
     that day. We cannot change our past..., we cannot
     change the fact that people will act in a certain
     way. We cannot change the inevitable. The only
     thing we can do is play on the one string we
     have, and that is our attitude. I'm convinced that
     life is 10 percent what happens to me and 90
     percent how I react to it. And so it is with
     you...we are in charge of our attitude.                                                       S ource Charles S tanley




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page10
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




                                  (Diakonos, Diakone, & Diakonia in Greek)
                                   means Aservice@ and Ato serve@. It is a service that an
                                   individual is called to perform. There are various
                                   translations in the Bible of the word Deacon: among
                                   them are administrator; one who cares for; minister
                                    and servant. The first example of this word is described
     in John 2:5, where Diakonos is used as Awaiters@ serving at the wedding of Cana
     (References: Luke 4:39, 10:40, 17:8, & John 12:2). Another form of the word
     Deacon describes him as a soldier and policeman who enforces justice (Romans
     13:4). The fundamental idea behind deaconship is stated in John 12:26 when Jesus
     mentions that we cannot follow him unless we serve Him. Anything done in
     obedience to Him is spiritual service. Therefore, all Christians are deacons, for all
     are to be actively serving Christ and His church. Every Christian is to be involved in
     some form of spiritual service or ministry.


     In Romans 12:6-8, we find that serving is listed as one of the spiritual gifts. Those
     possessing this gift are specially equipped for service, although they may not hold the
     office of deacon. I Corinthians 16:15 tells us about Stephanas, a deacon of the early
     Church, and his family who were gifted and devoted to the ministry of the saints.


     The term deacon is not used in the Bible until the Holy Ghost, through Paul defined
     the qualifications of the office pertaining to a deacon. This took place approximately
     30 years after the birth of the church on the Day of Pentecost. The Apostle Paul uses
     this word in only three scriptures in the New Testament. These include I Timothy
     3:10, 13 & Philippians 1:1.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page11
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                      2007

     We should understand that by being Christians and serving others we are Adeacons@
     whether male or female. This would include those individuals who may not be
     assigned the title but are gifted of the Holy Ghost to serve, and also those deacons
     who are selected to hold the office. (You may review this distinction in Romans 12:
     6-8 and I Timothy 3:10) Those who hold the office of deacon are to model spiritual
     virtue, service and lead others by example. They work under the leadership of the
     pastor and in unison with the Elders, to implement church order and what is being
     preached and taught.

     The Scriptures tell us that after the resurrection of Jesus Christ, as the early church
     began to grow, it became negligent with the daily ministration. If we break this word
     down into its components we find the following:

                       MINISTER vb 1 : to perform the functions of a minister of religion 2 : to give aid
                       or service

                       ADMINISTER vb 1 : manage, superintend 2 : to mete out : dispense 3 : to give
                       ritually or remedially <~ quinine for malaria> 4 : to perform the office of
                       administrator

                       ADMINISTRATION n 1 : the act or process of administering 2 : management 3 :
                       the officials directing the government of a country 4 : the term of office of an
                       administrative officer or body C 8 1995 Zane Publishing, Inc. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary 8 1994 by
                       Merriam-Webster, Incorporated


     Subsequently, seven men were chosen to oversee the daily ministration (Acts 6).
     These seven men performed the duties of a deacon according to the Apostle Paul=s
     requisites mentioned in I Timothy although the word deacon does not appear in Acts
     6, they served in the office of deacon. These seven, Holy Ghost-filled men included
     Stephen, Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas and Nicolas, all which
     happened to have Greek names. (See Strong=s reference). Stephan was chief among
     them and preceded the Apostle Paul.

     In Timothy 3:8-13, the Apostle Paul lists several qualifications for those elected into
     the office of deacon. These measures are based on spiritual character, not their
     duties. They are to assist to the needs of the Pastor, Elders and the needs of the
     congregation.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page12
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     QUALIFICATIONS FOR DEACONS

                                   8      & Likewise must the deacons be grave, not
          I Timothy 3:8-12       double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of
                                 filthy lucre; 9 Holding the mystery of the faith in a
                                 pure conscience. 10          And let these also first be
     proved; then let them use the office of a deacon, being found blameless. 11 Even
     so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all things. 12 Let
     the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses
     well.

     There are five areas in which qualifies a person to be a deacon:

     1.       PERSONAL CHARACTER - verse 8
              A deacon should be a sober and seasoned individual capable of discerning spiritual matters.
              The deacon should conduct themselves in a serious, yet warm and joyful manner.
     2.       SPIRITUAL LIFE - verse 9
              A deacon must hold the faith with a clear conscience, that is, a conscience that does not
              accuse him or her.
     3.       CHRISTIAN SERVICE - verse 10
              Deacons must undergo training and scrutiny before they officially serve as deacons. This
              testing should be periodic to encourage them to uphold God=s standards.
     4.       MORAL PURITY - verse 10 & 12
              Deacons should only have one spouse and should have an unmarred testimony. Their lives
              should be exemplary and lack cause of accusation, arraignment, and/or disqualification.
     5.       HOME LIFE - verse 11 & 12
              Deacons should have every aspect of their lives and family in subjection to God=s Word.
              This includes their finances, possessions, and family responsibilities.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page13
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                           2007

     8 & Likewise must the deacons be grave, not double-tongued, not given to much
     wine, not greedy of filthy lucre;

              GRAVE - (Latin), heavy or weighty, dignified, solemn, or sedate.
              Dignified - deserving respect, to give honor.
              Respect - partiality or favour in regard of persons or things, to regard, consider, take
              into account, to pay attention to, to observe carefully, to be directed to, to esteem,
              prize, or value a thing, to refrain from interfering with, a fact or motive which
              assist, or leads to, the formation of a decision.
              Solemn - according to strict rules.
              Sedate - quiet, serious, and without strong feelings, to give and an amount of sedate
              (sedative). Oxford Dictionary


              GRAVE (grv) adj. graver, gravest. 1. Requiring serious thought; momentous: a grave
              decision in a time of crisis. 2. Fraught with danger or harm: a grave wound. 3. Dignified
              and somber in conduct or character: a grave procession. See Synonyms at serious. American
              Heritage Dictionary


              NOT DOUBLE-TONGUED - duplicity of speech, deceitful or insincere in speech.
              Duplicity - the action of being double in action or conduct. Oxford Dictionary

              NOT GIVEN TO MUCH WINE - Something that intoxicates or exhilarates.
                                                               American Heritage Dictionary


              NOT GREEDY OF FILTHY LUCRE - (Greek), to enjoy wages, gain, profit,
              pecuniary advantage, now only in bad sense..., gain viewed as a low motive for action.
              Oxford Dictionary


              WORD HISTORY: When William Tyndale translated aiskhron kerdos, Ashameful gain@ (Titus
              1:11), as filthy lucre in his edition of the Bible, he was tarring the word lucre for the rest of its
              existence. But we cannot lay the pejorative sense of lucre completely at Tyndale's door. He was
              merely a link, albeit a strong one, in a process that had begun long before with respect to the
              ancestor of our word, the Latin word lucrum, Amaterial gain, profit.@ This process was probably
              controlled by the inevitable conjunction of profit, especially monetary profit, with evils such as
              greed. In Latin lucrum also meant Aavarice,@ and in Middle English lucre, besides meaning
              Amonetary gain, profit,@ meant Aillicit gain.@ Furthermore, many of the contexts in which the neutral
              sense of the word appeared were not that neutral, as in AIt is a wofull thyng . . . ffor lucre of goode . .
              . A man to fals his othe [it is a sad thing for a man to betray his oath for monetary gain].@ Tyndale
              thus merely helped the process along when he gave us the phrase filthy lucre. American Heritage
              Dictionary




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                              Page14
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     9    Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.

              PURE - free from admixture or adulteration. Free from corruption. Oxford Dictionary
              CONSCIENCE - the internal recognition of the moral quality of the one=s motives or
              actions . Oxford Dictionary



     10 And let these also first be proved; then let them use the office of a deacon,
     being found blameless.

              AND LET THESE ALSO FIRST BE PROVED -
               ANow, you have said, "Let these first be tried, and see if they desire this office."
              Within a few weeks, God willing, I will return back to lay hands upon this group of
              men to make them the official trust--or the deacons of this church, and treasurer.
              Let us bow our heads just a moment:@ PLACING OF DEACONS JEFF. IN COD 58-0720E P/P
              358-31


              BLAMELESS - Free of blame or guilt; innocent.


     11 Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all things.


              WIVES BE GRAVE - Same as husband (verse 8).

              NOT SLANDERERS - the utterance of false statements or reports concerning a person
              or malicious misrepresentation of his/her action, in order to defame or injure him/her, etc.
              Oxford Dictionary


              SOBER - of sober mind...self controlled...rational, sensible.

              FAITHFUL IN ALL THINGS - full of faith.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page15
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     THE REWARDS OF FAITHFUL SERVICE

                                       13 For they that have used the office of a deacon well
      I Timothy 3:13                  purchase to themselves a good degree, and great boldness
                                      in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.

     Those who offer true service as deacons are rewarded with an honorable standing
     before God and man, and with Aboldness in the faith@. This offer, although simply
     stated has immense benefit, for what is a servant of God without a good testimony?
     A faithful deacon will gain the confidence and trust not only of the people, but the
     approval of God.

     PLACING OF DEACONS by William Marrion Branham                                                July 20, 1958


       358-30 I wish to say to the--the brethren who are standing at this present time, at
     the foot of this cross, that this church, with one hundred percent (no contrary at all),
     finds you all worthy in the sight of God for this office that God has called you. Now,
     you have said, "Let these first be tried, and see if they desire this office." Within a
     few weeks, God willing, I will return back to lay hands upon this group of men to
     make them the official trust--or the deacons of this church, and treasurer. Let us bow
     our heads just a moment:

      358-32 Lord, we are happy tonight that there is men still living on the earth that
     can walk godly before the world, so godly that a Tabernacle, with strict rules as this
     one has, can vote five men into position as their leaders without one vote contrary.
     We are happy for them, and we feel that You were with us in making these decisions,
     the board and we pastors. God, bless these men. And may they serve this office with
     all their hearts, knowing that it is purchasing to them a great degree in heaven.
     Someday when the books of heaven shall be closed, may the Book of the celestial
     beings and the great Book of heaven be opened, may their names be one hundred
     percent before God and the Saviour and all the heavenly hosts to be the same in His
     Kingdom. Bless them, Lord, and may they serve this office well. In Jesus' Name we
     thank You for them. Amen.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page16
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     DEACON=S MISSION STATEMENT

     To serve God=s children whole-heartedly and joyfully; wearing a genuine smile in
     full recognition that my self-sacrifice and service is an offering to my Lord Jesus
     Christ; being sober at all times, vigilant in protecting my testimony and not bringing
     reproach unto God=s Word; to be a coal of fire burning with praise that I might create
     an atmosphere of worship. To uphold and defend the Word and to lead by my
     example.


     Scripture Readings:(Sober: I Thessalonians 5:6, Titus 2:6, I Peter 1:13, 4:7, 5:8 )


                                                          NOTE S




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page17
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     USHERS & DEACONS

     Israel in Egypt                      by William Marrion Branham                              March 25, 1953

     And I'm going to lay this really home. I used to be when I was here, I was the pastor,
     I was the song leader, I took up the offerings, I paid the debts, I was the janitor, and I
     was the carpenter, and I just cleaned the ashes out of the stove, and just done
     whatever come along to be done. Then worked at the Public Service Company on the
     side. Seventeen years of that, I was here. And I'm very happy for this little old
     structure tonight. And it's certainly like a birthplace to me. Not very elaborate, but
     it's a--and not so gigantic; but it's home, and I feel very comfortable. And I'm so
     happy for it.

     Taking Sides with Jesus by William Marrion Branham                                    June 1, 1962

     Like you was a little boy, say, my business is just to chop the wood, not pack it in. Let
     John pack it in. I don't care if snow falls on it, rains ... let him get out and get it. No!
     it's your duty as a child of that home to see that that wood don't get wet for your
     mother. See. Pack it in. If they say, well, Frank should've went and got water, it ain't
     my business ... But if Frank didn't get the water, it's your business to take care of the
     water. That's all. Now. that's just the way it runs, and that's the way it runs in God's
     family too.


     WHAT IS A MINISTER?
     Why Cry? Speak!                     by William Marrion Branham                      October 4, 1959

     I am a servant to the public, a public servant, is a minister, serve the public. To be
     the underdog, to take this knocks and drives of the public, whatever it is, stand there.
     And if you haven't got grace enough to smile and take it, then you ought to go back to
     Calvary and reconfirm your commission. That's what you are suppose to do.

     The Kinsman Redeemer                          by William Marrion Branham                      October 2, 1960

     The preacher is a public servant. He just holds himself there, like a lily of the field,
     the bumble bee flies in and gets his part, the honey bee flies and gets his, the
     by-passer gets his and everything. He tolls day and night to keep his radiance. And
     the Gospel minister does the same thing. Walks in the line of God. Holds his
     testimony true, that the world might partake of him, see, Mr. Pastor Lily. He is a

      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page18
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     good one. Jesus said, consider him. Solomon is not like him.


     PLACING OF DEACONS
     Placing of Deacons                  by William Marrion Branham                         July 20, 1958

      353-1 And that is, that the first is the placing some deacons into the church. And
     our little church here is sovereign. It doesn't have any denomination or
     anything to send its deacons; it elects its own deacons. It elects its pastor; it
     elects its trustees; it elects everything that comes in and out of the church. No
     one person has the say-so over anything; it's the church. And the church are
     those who come and support the church with their presence, with their tithe and
     offerings, are always the ones that has legal say-so in the placing of such. And I
     want to thank the past board of deacons, and I say it from here for all the church. If
     any of those brethren are here, which was Brother Cox, Brother Fleeman, and
     Brother Higginbotham and Brother Deatsman, they have give us a good service, give
     the Lord, in this Tabernacle.

      353-3 And ever so often, according to the bylaws of the church, every year, the

       BY-LAW
       a law or ordinance dealing with matters of local or internal regulation, made
       by a local authority, or by a corporation.

     deacons or trustees automatically fill their time. And if they want to come
     back, all right. If they do not want to come back, then they can place some in their
     places, that this board has resigned. And the other night I called the trustee board,
     which there is a new board of trustees. Till I noticed Brother Luther McDowell here
     tonight; we're glad to see him in, which was formerly on the trustee board. I went
     down this week to find out and to check into having a photostatic copy made, which
     will be presented to the church also. That the trustees of the church now is Brother
     William Morgan, Brother Mike Egan, and Brother Banks Wood, and Brother Roy
     Roberson. And they're all of this city, except Brother Roberson that lives between the
     two cities. The Lord has seen fit in those men, and they have been honorable men,
     and they have now received the duty as trustees of this church.

      353-5 And then while this meeting was going on, and was told by the assistant
     pastor that we--selecting of the new board of deacons, that these had served their time
     out and--and resigned, and it was to select some more deacons. Now, the church...
     The way this is done is the board can appoint deacons, men that they have

      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page19
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     associated with and found to be honorable and just men. The office of a deacon
     is a very great office, and a great honor to the Lord to be a deacon in the
     church. And so in the meeting the other night, certain man was called out to me. And
     when meeting with the pastor, the following--this last Friday, which was agreed by
     this man that these were honorable and just men.

     HONORABLE
     Worthy of being honored; entitled to respect, reverence.

     JUST
     Upright, and impartial in one’s dealings; appropriate, suitable, suitable, complete in
     amount or character. Exactly, precisely, in replies etc. in accordance with reason,
     truth or facts, rights true, correct, exact, accurate, exact as opposed to approximate.

       354-7 One young man that they had found, was not exactly qualified (not because
     that he wasn't the right type of man), one that was suggested by one of the honorable
     men of our trustee board. But as the pastor and I came together, and I asked the age
     of the young man, he was in his early twenties: honorable, just, and a real man, but
     find out that he was a single man. The Bible requires a deacon to be a married man.
     He must be the husband of one wife. And then another man which was a very
     honorable man, very qualified for the job and would made a loyal man, as a brother
     suggested him. Then after investigating the case, that the brother had just recently
     come into this faith; his wife doesn't believe in it. Then that disqualified the man as
     the office, because he must have all his family in subjection. They must be also in the
     faith, because it would be a conflict.

      354-9 And we're building now, and we wish to place this church. And as the
     general overseer of the church, I must see that it's kept Scripturally, everything right
     on the Word. And so therefore, then it has been found favorable with the board
     and the pastor, and the overseer, to select in this group of people here some men
     who we think to be honorable and just men. We can only bring them. And it's
     then they are appointed by the church, by their own vote. And then these man
     shall serve, if they feel that they will accept this office. Then they will come for a
     short time to see if they feel that maybe that God has called them. And if later, if
     they feel that they are disqualified, then they have a right in the next few weeks
     to resign the office, that someone else could be appointed in their place.

      354-11 However, at the beginning of the revival that (if God willing) I want to
     hold here in this Tabernacle as soon as I get some rest, then I--then I'll... We will


      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page20
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     ordain these deacons by laying on hands, deacons and treasurer in this church.
     But first they must be appointed and--and see how they like it and how the
     congregation likes it. Then if it's--then if it's all right on both sides, then we
     make these men ordained deacons, just like trustees are elected the same way.
     It's the sovereignty and the law of the church by the Word of God. Therefore,
     that--they just can't say that, "I think this man would be a right man." That isn't it.
     "Brother Neville thinks this man would be a right man," or "the trustee board thinks
     this man would be a right man," it has to be by the church. No one does anything
     within himself here. It's the vote of the church. It's a sovereign church. The old
     set of bylaws was destroyed in the 1937 flood. We have recopied those, and will be
     hung on the wall here soon, the duties of trustees, deacons, treasurer, and so forth,
     pastor, associates, and so forth.

      355-14 By the grace of God, it has been said to me, and a one hundred percent vote
     through the board of this church, that they have found that Brother Hollin Hickerson
     to be a just, honorable man, and in line in this position to receive the--the great honor
     of being deacon of this said Tabernacle. Also, we have found, and by the vote of the
     board, that Brother Collins also has been found an honorable and just man. Being a
     minister himself; therefore, we would ask him to come and to be a--a deacon of the
     church; and not only deacon, but an associate to Brother Neville, and perhaps to a
     Sunday school class, or to take the place of Brother Neville, or whatever is being
     called on, he to be an associate to Brother Neville. That's Brother Collins. And also
     the church has found in favor, that Brother Tony Zabel, an honorable and just man,
     and he's been favored before the trustee board and the pastors, to ask him to receive
     the office of deacon in this said Tabernacle.

      355-17 And it's also been asked, and found an honorable man among us... (Not...
     these not being the only honorable men now, but just has been selected by the board.)
     Brother Taylor from Henryville, or Memphis, I believe it is, Memphis, Indiana. He's
     been with us for some time, acting as usher and whatever could be. That the church
     has found favor with him, or the board and pastor, that he would accept the--the great
     office as being the deacon of this said Tabernacle. And it's also been asked that
     Brother Mike Egan's son-in-law, Brother--Brother Bob Harnard, has been selected by
     the board and by the pastor, to accept the office as treasurer of this said Tabernacle,
     which is an honorable job, and it requires justice and honor. In doing this, I think,
     my brethren, that calling you from here, that it would be a great honor to you. And
     not only that, but something to do.

      356-20         At this time I will have Brother Neville, our associate, to read the


      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page21
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     requirements of the deacon. Brother Neville, if you'll read it from the Word of God.
     [Brother Neville reads I Timothy 3:8-13--Ed.]:
           Likewise must the deacons be grave, not double-tongued, not given to
           much wine and greedy of filthy lucre;
           Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.
           And let these also first be proved; then let them use the office of a
           deacon, being found blameless.
           Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all
           things.
           Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and
           their own houses well.
           For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchase to
           themselves a good degree, and great boldness in the faith which is in
           Christ Jesus.

       356-21 Amen. I would at this time ask these brethren who has been called, if they
     would just walk forward here to the platform just a moment. And as we bow our
     heads just a moment for prayer, I want them... And the church knows what this is,
     that this is electing your deacon board and your treasurer. Lord Jesus, it is with
     sober, godly thinking that we come to Thee now. We come in respects of Thy
     most holy Word; we come believing that "Let every man's word be wrong, but God's
     be true." And we are grateful to Thee for this church which Jesus has purchased with
     His own precious Blood, and has given us this building to worship in...And as the
     overseers of this great flock, which the Holy Ghost has ordained us to be, we are
     trying now to present to this congregation a loyal, righteous bunch of men that we
     believe to be Spirit-filled and ready for the office. As it is once said concerning the
     deacon board, "Go, look out yourself among you, men of good reports and with
     the Holy Spirit, that they might serve in this manner to take care of the widows
     and orphans, to distribute the money, and to care for the welfare of the
     church." Later years we have just read the writing of that great, inspired,
     sainted Paul, who sets forth the declaration of the Scriptures of the
     requirements of such position. God, honor these men. And now it is the choice,
     Lord, as a sovereign church, as the body of the Lord Jesus, that they do the electing.
     And [Blank.spot.on.tape--Ed.]... and will direct this portion of the service in a special
     way, in that righteous and holy Name of Jesus.

      357-25 Now with our heads bowed, not only our heads but our hearts, and as every
     member of this church, that comes here regular and supports it with your tithe and
     offerings, which is considered a member of this church... While, the pastor and I,


      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page22
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     alone, the--the associate pastor, Brother Neville, and I look on, I would ask if this
     church finds Brother Taylor to be a just man and eligible, by the best of your thinking
     to be deacon over this group of people, you will signify the same by raising your
     hand. [Brother Branham pauses--Ed.] All right. Now if there is any contrary, would
     you raise your hand. [Brother Branham pauses--Ed.] Thank you.

      357-26 Does any of this members of this church here find, and all, do you find
     Brother Hollin Hickerson to be a just and honorable man, and a man that's found in
     your sight worthy to become the deacon of this said church, would you signify by
     raising your right hand? [Brother Branham pauses--Ed.] If it is contrary, then raise
     your hand. [Brother Branham pauses--Ed.] Does this congregation find Brother
     Collins to be the same, a righteous and honorable man, and worthy of the job of
     being deacon of this church? Would you raise your hand? [Brother Branham
     pauses--Ed.] All right. Contrary, would you raise your hand? [Brother Branham
     pauses--Ed.]

       357-28 Does this congregation find Brother Tony Zabel to be an honorable man
     and worthy of this office, of being deacon over this flock in this said church? Would
     you raise your right hand. [Brother Branham pauses--Ed.] Contrary, would you raise
     your hand? [Brother Branham pauses--Ed.] Does this congregation feel that Brother
     Harnard is a just and righteous man, who has been with us for some time, to be the
     treasurer, secretary-treasurer of this church, to handle its finances and to pay its bills?
     If so, raise your right hand. [Brother Branham pauses--Ed.] Is there any contrary,
     raise your right hand. [Brother Branham pauses--Ed.]

       358-30 I wish to say to the--the brethren who are standing at this present time, at
     the foot of this cross, that this church, with one hundred percent (no contrary at all),
     finds you all worthy in the sight of God for this office that God has called you. Now,
     you have said, "Let these first be tried, and see if they desire this office." Within
     a few weeks, God willing, I will return back to lay hands upon this group of men
     to make them the official trust--or the deacons of this church, and treasurer. Let
     us bow our heads just a moment:

      358-32 Lord, we are happy tonight that there is men still living on the earth that
     can walk godly before the world, so godly that a Tabernacle, with strict rules as this
     one has, can vote five men into position as their leaders without one vote contrary.
     We are happy for them, and we feel that You were with us in making these decisions,
     the board and we pastors. God, bless these men. And may they serve this office
     with all their hearts, knowing that it is purchasing to them a great degree in


      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page23
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     heaven. Someday when the books of heaven shall be closed, may the Book of the
     celestial beings and the great Book of heaven be opened, may their names be one
     hundred percent before God and the Saviour and all the heavenly hosts to be
     the same in His Kingdom. Bless them, Lord, and may they serve this office well. In
     Jesus' Name we thank You for them. Amen.

     RULE
     the code of discipline or body of regulation observed by a religious order; or
     congregation. A principle regulating practice or procedure.

     REGULATION
     A rule prescribed for the management of some matter, or regulating of conduct.

       358-34 I just want to shake your hands: Brother Harnard, and Brother Zabel, and
     Brother Collins, Brother Hickerson, and Brother Taylor. So happy to know that we
     have fellowshipped all this time with such honorable men. God bless you now. And
     we will see you right away, as soon as I get a little rest and get back, and see how you
     like your office. All right, by their vote, I think was one hundred percent, no contrary
     at all. Oh, aren't you glad that you're associating with people today who can live
     before God, godly, and live before this present world in that condition? It is a
     wonderful thing.

       359-36 And I'm so glad to know tonight that I have the privilege of--of having
     these men and this church to be my friends. I'm so glad that God let me associate
     myself with His church all over the world. Oh, they are despised and rejected and
     talked about, and as I said this morning in my message, maybe just mud daubers, the
     way the world looks at them, as a bunch of fanatics, but God looks at them as His
     children. I'm so happy for that. They might not be able to tell you how many miles it
     is to the moon. They might not be able to tell you all the solar systems and how it
     operates. But there's one thing they do know: they know the hour they were borned
     again. I'm so glad for them.

       359-37 And as a little parable that I learned, and I'm going to associate it tonight
     with my two little girls to kind of make it come home to us, to make it real to us, that
     you'd understand the meaning of it. One morning, raising up out of bed... I got two
     little girls. One of them is Rebekah, and one of them is Sarah, and they're daddy's
     little girls. And I've got a little boy, Joseph. I was coming from Chattanooga, out of a
     meeting one night, while I was there in this last campaign. And I was in the--the car,
     going along with my oldest son, Billy. His wife and Meda was in the car, and the


      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page24
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

     girls. And as we were rolling along, nobody had said nothing for several city blocks.
     And I'd cut pretty hard on the people that night about the way they were doing.
     Nobody had said anything. And little Joseph come over and grabbed me by the
     shoulder, and he said, "Daddy, you sure did preach tonight."

       359-39 And this morning, as I was leaving and going up to Eighth and Tenth
     Street, the--or Penn and Tenth, rather, nobody had said a thing, the wife and the two
     girls. And little Joseph took ahold of my shoulder again; he said, "Daddy, that, I sure
     liked that preaching this morning," he said.
     I said, "Well, I've got one fan; that's my son."
     And to our little saying... Up one morning and sitting in the room, little Becky come
     running out and say, she straddled my leg and put her arm around me, and she's
     daddy's little girl. And she was hugging me. And little Sarah jumped out of bed with
     her little pajamas and would, say, come running next. She's the little brown-eyed
     one.Little Becky would say, "Oh, Sarah, there's no need of you coming, because I've
     got all of daddy myself. Daddy's all mine." And little Sarah, her little lips dropped
     down; her little brown eyes colored up. I motioned like this and stuck out the other
     knee, and she come and straddled it.

      360-42 Becky's got longer legs, so they would reach the floor. Little Sarah was
     toddling, so I put both arms around Sarah. Little Sarah looked over to Becky and
     said, "Becky, you may have all of daddy, but daddy's got all of me."
     And I think that's the way it is here. We might not know all of the theology, all the
     great Greek words, this group of people might not know. But there's one thing sure: I
     believe Jesus has got all of us. Amen. All right, Brother Neville.




      Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                           strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.

                                                            Page25
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


CHURCH ORDER
COD SUPPLEMENT
                                     by William Marrion Branham                              October 6, 1958
 1191-1 We have just closed the big meeting, of five nights at the Tabernacle,
where, by God's grace and by His help, I have tried hard by the Scripture, to set in
order the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we believe at the Branham Tabernacle.
The first thing I wish to say is that the pastor is always in full charge of the
Tabernacle in my absence, and I only look to the pastor when I return. So he is
in full charge to change or to do whatsoever he thinks is best under the leadership of
the Holy Spirit while I am away.

 1191-3 We believe in an apostolic Church, teaching apostolic blessing for people
of this day. We believe in the full Gospel, and believe that all of the signs and the
wonders that was spoken of by our Lord Jesus Christ, would accompany His Church
until He returned. We believe in those things, and believe that they are to be set in
order, that the Church has its order. And each church has its doctrine, and order, and
discipline. Our church has no members as joiners. We believe that the whole
universal Church of the living God is our brothers and sisters; and that all
people are always welcome, regardless of what denomination they belong to, at
the Branham Tabernacle, at 8th and Penn Street in Jeffersonville, Indiana.

  1191-5 We believe in justification by faith, Romans 5:1. We believe, that after a
person being justified by faith, he has peace with the Lord Jesus Christ. But it's
possible that this same person could have habits such as drinking, smoking, doing
things that he should not do, filthy habits of the flesh. Then we believe that the
Blood of Jesus Christ sanctifies this person for the service of the Lord. And that's...
We believe in sanctification according to Hebrews 13:12 and 13, "Where Jesus also,
that He might sanctify the people with His Own Blood, suffered without the gate."
And we believe that sanctification is taught in the New Testament, and meant for the
believers through the New Testament age, which we're now living. And we also
believe that after the person has been sanctified, unclean habits has gone from the
person. He is a believer on the Lord Jesus Christ, and his habits are gone; we believe
that then he is a candidate for the baptism of the Holy Spirit, which comes as a filling
of the believer. And then when the believer...It's just, as many times as I have taught
it, like picking up a glass out in the chicken yard. Justification is picking it up, ready
for--to use it, with a purpose in heart. That's what God does to the sinner. He is still
filthy. Then he is cleansed by the Blood of Jesus Christ. And the word "sanctify" is a
compound word, which means, "cleaned, and set aside for service." In the Old

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page26
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

Testament the altar sanctified the vessel, and it was set aside for service.

  1192-10 We believe that the Holy Spirit is putting the same vessel in service. That
the Holy Spirit is not another step of grace, but more of the same grace that fills the
believer to the extent where that signs and wonders, such as the apostolic gifts spoken
of in I Corinthians 12, manifest themself through this believer, when the Holy Spirit
comes in to take up the gifts. I believe that the Scripture teaches that gifts and
callings are without repentance, that when we are born in this world, we are
sent here by one purpose, that is, of God. And that before we are even become
adults, while we're yet children, the gifts that we have of God is in us then, and
only the filling of the Holy Spirit puts these gifts into operation; but we have
them in the beginning, such as teachers, and apostles, and--and prophets, and
gifts of tongues, and the nine spiritual gifts according to I Corinthians 12. Now,
we believe that these gifts are in operation today, and they should be in every
local church. Although, in such we have found throughout the world, that there
is much fanaticism hooked along with people who profess to be apostolic
believers. Just as they are in other orders, and so forth, we have fanatics. That's
been all along; we've had those through the ages, they had it in the apostolic
days; and as Paul said there, that how that some had come and persuaded them
away, after other doctrines, and so forth. But in his own teaching, he said if an
Angel from heaven would teach anything else than what he had taught, let him
be accursed.
 1192-13 So we, as the Branham Tabernacle, at 8th and Penn Street here, try to
follow the teachings of the New Testament. For we believe that Jesus Christ, being
the Son of God... And Paul the apostle was a called and chosen vessel by election of
God, to be sent to the Gentile Church, to set it in order. Now, we believe in water
baptism in the Branham Tabernacle, by immersing in the Name of the Lord Jesus
Christ, which is the apostolic teaching of the Bible. And may all members of us, or
comers to the Branham Tabernacle, who desire such, may at anytime (requesting to)
be immersed, in the Name of the Lord Jesus. May he consult the pastor; if they have
repented, and believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, the pastor will, as soon as possible,
even at... then if he can, baptize them immediately. This does bring them into the
fellowship of the believers. We believe that by water baptism we are brought into a
fellowship. But by the baptism of the Holy Spirit, we are brought into the members,
being members of the Body of Jesus Christ, which is all over the world.

 1193-16 Now, another thing that we believe: that the manifestation of the Spirit is
given to every man to profit withal. Now, we believe that when these gifts, and so
forth, are operating in the Church... Which we covet and desire that the people
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page27
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

who are gifted by the Spirit, come and worship with us. Now, in most places we
find that when these gifts in the people, the people does not understand how and
when to use these gifts, and in doing so they only bring a reproach; which we
believe would be just what Satan could do to make the outsiders, the unbelievers
and so forth, afraid of this wonderful Blessing that God has given to the Church
in these days. Paul said, "When there come a stranger among us, and would all
speak with tongues, won't the man go away and say we were mad? But if one would
prophesy, and make known the secret of the heart, then they would fall down and
say, 'Truly, God is with you.'"

 1193-19 Now, we believe that the spiritual gifts among the believers, is the
order of the day. We cannot believe that a man can preach under inspiration
and then--be an inspired teacher, and then deny the gift of healing, or the gift of
prophecy, or speaking with tongues, or interpretation of tongues, or any of these
other gifts. So therefore, here is my belief in God's Word, the way the Branham
Tabernacle, at 8th and Penn Street here in Jeffersonville, should be operated. I think,
the first thing, and believe that these things which I say is essential and must be
carried out in this manner in the Branham Tabernacle, for it to prosper in the Lord.
And if at anytime these--this, would be questioned, the person who is in question
about it may consult me if they cannot get to the pastor, or they can consult the
pastor. If I'm home, off of some of the trips, I'll be glad to--to help either the laity or
the pastor at any time. And these things are Scripturally, and I believe it's the order of
the Church.

  1193-21 I think, first, that every member, or every worshipper, of the
Branham Tabernacle, should be so much in Divine love with each other until it
would--their hearts would long for each other when they have to go away, to
leave each other at the service at night. I am a true believer in Divine love. The
apostle Paul said that was the evidence of the Holy Spirit. "By this manner, all man
will know you are My disciples," said Jesus, "when you have love one for the other."
 And we believe that it's the love of God that sent Jesus Christ to the earth to die for
us all. "God so loved the world, He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever
believeth in Him should not perish but will have Everlasting Life." And the
Everlasting Life here is "God's Own Life," because we become sons and daughters
of God by the baptism of the Holy Spirit; which is the Seed of Abraham, and
gives us the faith that Abraham had, when he believed God before he was even
circumcised.

 1194-22 Now, the next thing, we believe that these worshippers should meet
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page28
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

together, these gifted people, such as tongues, and people who gets revelations
and interpretations, and so forth. These members, or these believers, rather,
should come together at least forty-five minutes or an hour before the services
ever begin. The church should be opened early, and the believers come together
on these nights, and at least forty-five minutes to an hour before the services
begin.

  1194-23 I believe the Branham Tabernacle at all times should have a Spirit-filled
pianist, who would come early, filled with the Holy Spirit, and would play softly,
very softly, spiritual music, such as, "Down at the cross where the Saviour died,
down there for cleansing from sin I cried; there to my heart was the Blood applied,
glory to His Name!" Something on that order, "Nearer, My God, To Thee", "Rock Of
Ages, Cleft For Me." Or, "Near The Cross," or something on that order; softly,
slowly, as he is meditating constantly on the Holy Spirit, he or she, whichever it may
be. Then I believe that the worshippers, coming in, should be met, and there hang
their coats and hats, shown to their seats, with hospitality that only ushers or deacons
filled with the Holy Spirit can do, and in love, to see the Church of the living God go
on.

 1194-25 These worshippers should not talk one with another, and be talking
across, and making noise in the church. They should come together. First, slip
up in silent prayer, perhaps at the altar for a few moments. No loud praying,
you interrupt someone else; silent prayer, you are in worship. Let that soak in.
Worshipping in your spirit, then return to your seat. Or you do not have to go
to the altar. Just go in and get you a seat, sit down, listen to the music; close
your eyes, bow your head; and, being silent, and worshipping God, all along.

  1194-28 Then if the Spirit should reveal something to another, or--or someone be
filled with the Spirit to a place where they would speak with tongues, then this person
should rise and give the message. And everyone must hold their peace until the
interpretation comes. When the interpretation comes, it must not be just quoting a
Scripture, or--or something that has no meaning. It must be a message directed to the
Church, or we think that it would be in the flesh; we see so much of that. And now,
as I believe, the--the Spirit was to speak only for the edifying of the Church.

 1195-30 And now, it would be a message something on this order, perhaps.
Perhaps the people are gathering by this time, some sick people has come in. Perhaps
there is a man laying, paralyzed or something. You've never seen him before. But
when the interpretation would come, it would be something in this order; when the

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page29
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

interpretation, or the one who has just spoke, would say, "Well, THUS SAITH THE
LORD, the man who is in our midst has come from a certain-certain place," and
describe the place. And would say that, "He is paralyzed, because three or four years
ago," whatever it may, the case may be, "he did something evil," like, "left his wife
and children, and run off from them. And he fell from a truck," or something like that
order, "and has got hurt, and it's paralyzed him. THUS SAITH THE LORD. If he
will repent of that, and will promise to go to his wife and reconcile himself to her,
then he shall be healed now and return to his family."

 1195-31 And then before anyone says anything, there must be at least two, or
more, men or people in the building, who are spiritually solid in Gospel
doctrine, who has a good discernment of spirit, shall rise up and say that it is of
the Lord. And if this thing doesn't take place, then tongues should not be
mentioned in the church. If the person speaks with tongues, Paul said, "If there be
no interpreter," and so forth, "let them speak at home," or wherever they may be, "for
they are only blessing themselves, and it's not for edification of the Church."

 1195-33 And this person, after speaking, and the interpretation... And then
two or three judges, according to Saint Paul's doctrine of the Bible, that it must
be judged by two or three judges. Then let the person in whom it calls upon, to go.
And maybe It might designate a certain person, or the pastor or someone, to go lay
hands on this person, and that is sick or afflicted, and they will be healed. Then let
the pastor or the other person, whoever it may be, that it was designated by the Holy
Spirit to go pray the prayer of faith, let them go and minister to the person according
to what the Spirit has said. Then at that time, the person upon... And whatever the
Holy Spirit has said, it shall take place, immediately then, just as the Holy Spirit has
give it. And then the people could rejoice, and be thankful, and praise and worship
God, 'cause God wants to be worshipped.

 1196-36 Then they must, then they must bow their heads and be in prayer again, to
see if there be another message that the Holy Spirit would want these gifts to
manifest, before. And then if anytime that a person would speak in tongues, and
interpret, and the--the judges would send the person to take, to do whatever it
was said to be done, and it doesn't come to pass, then the whole group of them
shall go to the altar and there pray God to take that spirit away from them,
because there is no one would want a spirit like that. We would know it would be
false, and would be of the enemy and not of God, 'cause God can only tell truth. Let
that be clearly understood by the church, before you start this, this new order.


Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page30
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

 1196-38 Then, perhaps, maybe it would be something like this, the message would
say to a certain brother, maybe that, say, would... "Lived by a railroad track," or
something, "to have him to move out, because there is going to be a wreck on the
road," or something, or anything in that order. And let the judges, after they give the
church permission to speak, or to exercise this message that just went forth, if their
judgment is, "It's of God," then watch and see if it comes to pass. And if it comes to
pass, thank God, and be very graceful, graceful in your heart towards Him. And give
Him praise and worship, and be humble. Above all things, be humble.

 1196-41 Don't never get yourself puffed up to a place where you know more
about it than your pastor or the church that you are worshipping in. If you get
to that place, then I would advise each one of you to get another place to worship
with. Because, I am asking the pastor never to permit anything outside of the Bible
order, the way we have seen it here in the church. And then we want these gifts to
be operated, and in place, and the worshippers. If it's carried on correctly,
according to the Word, you'll see a mighty wonderful church in operation for
our Lord Jesus Christ.

 1196-42 Now, then the next thing shall take place, will be that if these people
who have, that gets out of order during these times, that a deacon or some usher
that's filled with the Holy Ghost and got lots of grace in their heart, shall go to
the person, reverently, fatherly like, and shall correct them in this manner. Or
the pastor, whoever it may be, which would be more essential for the deacons to
do so; for the pastor, at this time, while these spiritual services are going on,
should be in the prayer room, or somewhere, a-praying. These messages, then if
there is no messages going on, no revelations, then the people would be privileged, if
they desired, to raise and give a testimony, a testimony only for the glory of God.
They're not bound to do this, but testimonies should be given before the message or
any song service starts, or anything, testimonies in these worship services. Do you
understand, church, that, in doing this, you have the whole church in the spirit of
worship, before the Word comes in to be taught. Then the Holy Spirit gets in the
Word and manifests God through the Word, to be a confirmation of your worship.

 1197-45 Now, then after this, a time for the pastor to come on. If messages are
going on, say... The pastor should come out exactly, say, seven-thirty, and, or a
quarter of eight. And if these messages are still going on, before the pastor comes to
his... out of his study, or wherever he may, to take his place at the platform; some
brother should instruct him, because the saints know that when the pastor comes on
the platform, it's his time then for the service. And that gives plenty, ample time for
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page31
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

all the manifestations of the gifts, to bring the Spirit of God into the--the
congregation.

 1197-46 And if any unbeliever would happen to be there, be disorderly; a
kindhearted person would go to them, such as an usher or a deacon, and would
tell them that they would--they would... asked to be kept reverent, or be
reverent while the service is in order. Because, the Spirit is in the building, and
the gifts of God are being made manifest for the edifying of the Church. And
this person must be told in love, and not harshly. Unless it would come to a
place where they were drinking, or some disobedient, or something another that
would be interfering with the worship of--of the Lord, which the gifts are then
being manifest; then the person should, would, or should be led out to one side,
to one of the back rooms, or somewhere, and be talked to, and dealt with,
kindly.

 1197-47 Now, while the pastor comes to the platform. As the pastor comes to the
platform, I would suggest, at the Branham Tabernacle here, that the pastor lead the
congregation in at least one or two good songs. For we have found it so, that when
too many are trying to operate in the church, it brings on only trouble. I would
suggest, as I did while I was pastoring at the church; I led the songs, myself. And I
feel that it would be a good thing if the pastor did so, himself.

  1197-48 And in all prayer meetings, where they're gathered together, groups,
a prayer meeting, the pastor must be at each one. It should never be left to any
individual to go lead such meetings. For we have found it so, that they get off the
track, on doctrine, and then they cause--bring it right back into the church, and, many
time, bring heresies, and so forth, which doesn't belong in the Church of the living
God. And the pastor should be at all prayer meetings, and so forth, where
congregate--or gatherings are.

 1198-49 And the pastor should never take sides in the meeting, by saying
there is one group is this way and one that way. The pastor should stand
between both of them, and go to them, and get them reconciled, immediately.
And if he can't get them reconciled, let him take a deacon with him. And then if
they're--they won't hear neither pastor nor deacon, then it should be told to the
church, and, as Jesus said, "Let them be unto you as a heathen and a publican."
"And whatever you bind on earth," said Jesus, "I will bind in Heaven, and
what you loose on earth, I will loose in Heaven."


Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page32
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

  1198-50 Now, when the pastor comes to the platform, let the pastor then lead, at
least, one or two songs, and go straight to the Word. Not no time for these long
testimony meetings, and everybody get up, and a word to say. That does not prosper
in the Branham Tabernacle. If any people, if you are listening to this tape, and, you,
it has prospered in your church, well, that's perfectly all right. And we are very glad
of that, that it does prosper in your church. But in ours here, it does not, it only
causes confusion. I've been pastoring here for twenty-some-odd years, and I have
found that it only causes confusion. If you've got a testimony, give it before, in the
congregation of the people, while the Spirit is a-blessing, and so forth.

 1198-54 Or, the real way to testify, is not in the church, is out in dark places.
Let your Light shine where it's dark. Go to roadhouses and different places, and
where sin and thing is heaping, then let your Light shine. There is the place to
do it. But, however, if the Lord has blessed you and give you some great special
blessing, or something that you have to tell the people, do it in time of the other
service, the pre-service, the preliminary, or when the Spirit is blessing and
giving testimonies and revelations, and tongues and interpretations, and so
forth, in the worship, of the saints, before the Word of God is being brought
forth.

 1198-56 Then the pastor, after leading this hymn, shall immediately lead the
church in prayer, and a congregational prayer, himself, as he stands at the platform,
asking the rest of them to bow their heads in prayer. This we have found to be a
greater blessing, and a more ruly in operating in the church. And then, the next thing
the pastor should do then, after. If they had a real spiritual meeting, with the gifts
making manifest many secrets of the people's hearts, and things which should be
done by the gifts in the meeting; then the Spirit of God is in the meeting, and it's very
easy then for the pastor to find the Spirit of God (which is already in the meeting) on
the Word of God, as he reads and starts preaching. The pastor then preach anything
that the Holy Spirit would put on his heart, whatever he wishes to do, standing there.

 1199-59 But the congregation is to only... They can rejoice, as he is preaching,
of course, or say "amen" when the Word comes forth. But, as far as getting up
and giving a--a messages in tongues and interpretation, while the--the Holy
Spirit is working through the pastor, the Scripture condemns that, and said,
"The spirit of the prophet is subject to the prophet." The pastor then must call
this individual down, and ask them to be reverent and to keep their place. The
pastor must be a man that has got a very humble way about him, but not too
humble but what he could be like the Lord Jesus Christ when He seen wrong

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page33
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

going on in the church, He platted ropes and ran them out of the church. And
now the Church of God is the highest of judgment, and the pastor is the highest
order in the Church. The elder is the highest thing in the apostolic Church,
outside of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit brings His Message straight to the
elder, and the elder gives it to the people.

  1199-61 The saints and their gifts shall have their place, first, to worship and come
together, which brings (as I have said before) the Spirit of the Lord, in the building,
for the pastor. And it makes it much easier for the Holy Spirit to work through him
then, when a great spiritual meeting has just preceded his teaching; and then the Holy
Spirit gets into the Word and teaches the Word; has just been manifested by the gifts.
 And then the altar call is being made then, afterwards, and many then will see and
know, according to the working of the Holy Spirit, and the Word of God which the
pastor places It on, that you are the Church of the living God. And as Paul said, of
old, "He will fall down and say, 'Truly, God is with you.'" It... Now, in these things,
let it be done with reverence.

  1199-63 And now to the pastor, to our Brother Neville, at this time. Remember, he
is the full head of the church. Brother Neville has the right to exercise any authority
that the Holy Spirit would, anything the Holy Spirit would tell him to say, in other
words. In the church, he has the right to anything that God would lead him to
do. He also has the right over his deacon board. He can change the deacon
board, the trustees, or--or pianist, or any other office in the church that he
desires to change, feeling led by the Holy Spirit to do so. And whatever he does,
I will recognize it, as he (I believe) to be a godly man. I will recognize it to be of
the Lord, and will sanction the same, therefore it gives him the authority then to
operate the church the way he feels led to do it. Now, or, any office in the church,
that he desires to--to--to switch positions of people, for he has the authority to do
that. Which, I trust that this will always be lovely and never have to be used.

 1200-64 Now, may the Lord bless you all. And I trust that this will be carried out to
the very best of your knowledge. And may the Holy Spirit watch over each one of
you. And may every officer of the church fill his post of duty, knowing this, that
God is going to hold you responsible for how you held your office in the church.
Each one will have to give an account. And to the laity, and the dear gifted saints
that's in our church, those who--who prophesy, or speak with tongues, or interpret, or
have revelations, we are just so happy to have you in the service. And we will give
you full cooperation in everything that the Holy Spirit shall prove that He has said to
you. And we love you. And we believe that these gifts are in you, and, if you have a
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page34
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

right opportunity, and a Scripturally presentation of it, that you will make great
workers in our midst. And may the Lord bless you all, is my sincere prayer.

 1200-67 Christians, since listening to this tape, I have one thing that I seen I left
out, and that is this; that, while people are speaking with tongues, it must be in the
courses of two or three, according to the Scripture. That is, there is only two or
three messages to be given in each single service. After that according to the
Scriptures, that, "These courses must be only two, or three." So may you carry these
things out, accordingly, the way the Holy Spirit has dir--directed it in His Bible. And
this is, the best of my knowledge, the way to do it. Paul said, "Let them be by
courses, two or three, when they are speaking." The Lord bless you.

PASTOR=S ASSISTANTS
Total Deliverance                             by William Marrion Branham                     July 12, 1959

  29 Now, each one of these has things in common. And I think that your meeting
should not be together, but it should be as each office, cause the deacons has nothing
to say to the trustees unless they got some business to present to them. And vice
versa, the trustees is over the finance and things of the building; they have nothing
with the deacons. The deacons are the policemen of the church, and the assistants
to the pastor. And the trustees is the holding of all the property. The trustees has
nothing to do with the spiritual end of it, and the deacon has nothing to do with
the financial end of it. Therefore, it must be. And the Sunday school superintendent
is over his Sunday school. So I've got it all wrote, typed out, to be on the bulletin
board.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF A DEACON

Church Order                         by William Marrion Branham                              December 26, 1963

         884-Q-222 Now, is there any better way to keep order in
         the church than to keep reminding the people with a--a
         repeat from the deacons accordingly? No, that, I just
         explained that. That's question number three.

 884-56 The deacons, your duty is to keep order in the church with kindness and

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page35
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

friendliness. And then you are supposed to, if someone gets out of order in the
church, or comes in here like a drunk, or somebody come in.

KINDNESS
Sympathize, considerate, generous, courteous. Exhibiting a friendly disposition by
one=s conduct. To a person or animal.

FRIENDLY
Having the qualities or disposition of a friend. Characteristics of or befitting a
friend.

 884-57 Like they shot that minister out of the platform the other night up there.
You heard about that, that drunk coming in with a double-barreled shotgun. And he
screamed for his wife, and--and wanted a...?... and went up towards the pastor. And
the pastor showed him his wife setting there, but he was going to shoot her right in
the church, and the pastor started to dealing with him. And instead of--instead of
the... The man with the shotgun turned around and shot the pastor out of the pulpit,
and then shot his wife, and then shot himself.

 884-58 Now, if there'd been a bunch of deacons there when that man entered
that door with that shotgun, they'd have had their arms around him and the
shotgun out of his hand. See? See, that's--that's orderly deacons. And now, these
things have gone the way they're doing now, and you might just expect
anything. But, remember, the deacons are God's policemen in the house of God,
no matter what anybody else thinks. Sometimes a policeman want not to have to
go up and make an arrest on somebody, maybe one of his friends, but he's
sworn to an office; he's got to do it anyhow. That's his duty to his city. See?

  884-59 That's the duty of a deacon to the church. And if someone jumps up and
starts interrupting the pastor, or something other like that, and the pastor in his
message, the deacons supposed to walk up to them people, two or three of them, say,
"Could we speak to you, brother?" See? Bring him from the church, out into the
office, in here or some other office, and speak to him about it, saying, "You're not to
interrupt." You know, it's a--it's a great fine by the law to interrupt a service anyhow.
See? But some people, such as a delinquent person or something, come among you,
you know, and--and some religious fanatic, and--and start carrying on, then the
deacons... And if--and if the deacons don't seem to be able to control it, then the
trustee board or anyone else in the church can step up and give help to such a person,
you know, that...
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page36
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



DELINQUENT
To fail or be negligent in a duty, or obligation. Someone who fails in his duty or
obligation.

RELIGIOUS FANATIC
Affected by false enthusiasm, by action, or the result of being possessed by a deity or
demon

          885-60 And--and now let me ask the question again here.
         Is there any better way to keep order in the church than to
         remind the people with a repeat from the deacons, now,
         occasionally?

  885-61 Now, I think that the--the pastor, ever so often... Or play this tape; let that
stand for a witness. Deacons are policemen, and their word is law and order. See?
And they have the authority from the church and even from the laws of the nation to
make that house of God be the right place. And anyone to contrary a deacon like that,
is subject to--to two to ten years in federal prison. If you tell them to go and they
don't do it, or something like that, somebody with disorderly conduct, he just don't
know what he's doing to... He's subjecting himself, allowing himself to all kinds of
fines, anything.

DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Violating moral law, or constituted authority, or recognize law. Lawless; violating
public order or morality.

  885-62 And then if it comes to the spot that somebody... Now, like... And if
somebody jumps up and gets disorderly... Just maybe speak in tongues or something,
I wouldn't go in on that. See, let them go, 'cause that they're a stranger. If they're our
own people, then just let... The next night, you deacons just get this tape, and say,
"Now, we're going to play the order of the church before we start the service, I want
everybody to understand it." And you pastors and you all can work together like that.

           900-Q-231 How far, Brother Branham, can or should a
         deacon go to keep order in the church? Should we keep the
         order or wait until Brother Neville tells us what we should
         do?
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page37
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



 900-128 That isn't Brother Neville's job; that's your job. See? You don't tell
Brother Neville what to preach on, how to preach it. See, that's your job, you
deacons; you're supposed to do that. You take care of that. That's nothing to Brother
Neville that's your job. See?

 900-129 Now, if a policeman's out here on the street and he sees a man stealing
property out of a back of a car, should he call the mayor and say, "Now, Mayor, your
Honor, sir, I am working for you here on this police force. Now, I find a man up the
street here, he's--he was stealing some tires off of a car last night. Now, I just
wonder, what's your opinion of that?" See? See, that wouldn't be sensible. Would it?
No, sir, If he's doing something wrong, arrest him.

 900-130 And if a man's doing something wrong here in the church, or anybody,
stop them, talk to them. Don't be arrogant; but if they won't listen, speak in a way that
they know what you're saying. See? See, like you tell a child, say, "Walk back there,"
and he's misbehaving. Deacons, stay at your place. Put... There's four of you; stay
two in front and two in the back, on these corners or somewhere like that. And
watch real close for renegades and everything else come in like this. You see?
And you be on the guard, and you get to your post of duty and stay there; that's
your seat; or stand right beside a wall and watch everybody come in.

ARROGANT
Making or implying unwarrantable claims to dignity, authority, or knowledge.

RENEGADE
An apostate from any form of religious faith, especially a Christian. One who deserts
a party, person, or principle, in favor of another.

 900-131 A deacon takes care of the house of God. Someone come in, speak to
them; be there to greet them, shake their hand. That's... You're the policeman, "Could
we show you the cloak room?" or "Would you be seated?" "Could we hand you a
song book or something?" or "Now, we would like for you to enjoy yourself here,
and--and pray, and--and we're happy you're here with us tonight." Lead them right
down to a place, and say, "Would you like to be closer or would you like to be back
here?" or wherever more. That's hospitality.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page38
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

HOSPITALITY The act on practice of being hospitable; the reception and
entertainment of guests or strangers with liberality and goodwill

COURT (1) A court of Judicature of law or administration. An assembly of judges
or other persons legally appointed and acting as a tribunal to hear and determine
any cause

COURT (2) To pay courteous attention to, to pay amorous attention to, to woo; with
a view to marriage.)

COURTEOUS Graciously attentive and respectful in treatment of others.

 901-132 A policeman (or the deacon) is a military police to the army, courtesy, but
yet with authority. See? You know what a military police is, is actually, if he carries
out his rights, I think he's just like a chaplain. You see? It's courtesy and everything,
but yet he has an authority. See, you must mind him. See, he puts... These rookies get
out there and get drunk, why, he puts them in their place. And so is the deacon to put
them in their place.

 901-133 Now, remember, the deacon is a policeman, and a deacon's office is
actually more strict than most any office in the church. I don't know of an office
any more stricter than the deacon's office. That's right. Because he's got a--he's got a
real job, and he's God's man. He's God's man just as much as the pastor's God's
man. Certainly, he is. He's God's servant.

  901-134 Now the trustees, only thing, they're under duty by God to watch that
finances and take care of that, the things that goes on like that. I told you about them
tapes, and--and about other things here that goes on, about the building and repairs,
and taking up the finances and things, that's--that's what they're trustee of: the
property, finances, and things. The deacons has nothing to do in that. And neither
does the--the trustee have anything to do with the deacons' office.

 901-135 Now, if the deacons wants to ask the trustee's help on anything, or the--or
the trustees the deacon's, and you're all working together... But that's your duties, is
singling out. See? All right.

 901-136 Now, no, don't ask Brother Neville. If Brother Neville asks you to do
something, then that's--that's your pastor, with courtesy and love and everything... If
he'd say, "Brother Collins, Brother Hickerson, Brother Tony, or somebody, would

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page39
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

you see what's wrong back there in the corner." At the post of duty like that, you
know, as a real man of God.

 901-137 Remember, you are not working for Branham Tabernacle, neither are you
working for Brother Neville or me; you're working for Jesus Christ. See? You...
That's who you do... And He--He's respecting your loyalty just the same as He is to
that pastor or to anybody else; He's expecting your loyalty. And we want to show our
loyalty.

  902-138 Now, sometimes it gets hard. It's hard for me in the field. A minister
setting there I love with all my heart, just have to really tell him (See?), but in a way
of love, I've got a hand out to help him. So see? And they come to me and say,
"Brother Branham, you're just a wonderful person, why can't you just compromise a
little on that baptism, and on this, that, and the other, that security, and the serpent's
seed?" I say, "Brother, I love you, but now, let's us take--just take the Scripture and
see who's right or wrong. See, I've got to be able to..." "Oh, no. Now, Brother
Branham, I tell you, you're all wrong." See, goes flying up. "Oh," I say, "well,
perhaps I am. Then if I am, surely you'd tell me, you're... You know where I'm wrong
at, then you show me where I'm wrong. And I'm willing to take. See?" Same thing,
"Hey, you ain't got no business telling that child to set down." Now, the deacon is
the--is the custodian at the house of God. See? Now, if you... He takes care of the
house of God and keeps it in order. Now, that's what the Scripture says, and if you
got anything else that a deacon should do, you come tell me. See, there's the same
thing, but that--that's your duty to do that, yeah, just back up. And you should ask
nobody; that's--that's just your duty. Brother Neville don't ask nobody; the church
don't have to ask... I mean, the--the--the trustees don't have to go ask Brother Neville
if--if he wants the roof put on the Tabernacle. See? No, no, that's not nothing to
Brother Neville; it's not nothing to me; that's to you. The deacons don't have to...

 902-144 The same way to the pastor. "What are you going to preach on? I don't
want you to do this." They ain't got no business saying that; he's under God (See?),
their pastor. And then if--if--if Brother Neville, he preaches a message that the Lord
has give us, and we're all together in this. And if I tell Brother Neville something
wrong, God holds me responsible for it. That's right. See? So God is the Boss of all
of it. See? And we're just working as His ambassadors (You see?), down here in
these offices.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page40
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

           903-Q-234    Please explain just how we are to--how we
         deacons can keep the people... just in the sanctuary before
         or after... Please explain. [Billy Paul reads the question to
         Brother Branham, "How do we keep the people quiet in
         the sanctuary before and after church?"--Ed.] Oh, all
         right.

I would suggest this, brethren. Now, there's a great thing; wish we had more time to
put on it, for it's--it's... It means something to us. See? Now, the church is not a... If
he wants to... If you want to run this tape down some night and play it before the
meetings, that the people will understand it, let this be played; just this part of the
tape if no more, just this. Any part of this that you want played for a certain thing,
just keep running it till you find it, and then play it. See, 'cause it's questions. Now,
deacons of the church, and as I--as I said, are the police of the church. But the
church is not a general meeting-house for--for fellowship, and friendship, and
frolic. The church is a sanctuary of God. We come here... Now, if we want to
meet one another, let me come to your house or you come to my house, or you
go to one another's house and meet one another. But just to frolic around
through the church, and talking and things like that, it's not right, brethren; we
come here; we get the whole thing off of our mind. If we would come here...

 904-150 Look the way we used to do it years ago. Sister Gertie was the pianist.
When I pastored here, I was--I had to be pastor, deacon, trustee, and everything else
at once (See?), but I--I had to do it. Now you don't have to do it that way (See?),
because you got men to carry this out. But when the... I had ushers, Brother Seward
and all of them at the door. They had books piled around there at the door, setting in
a chair, or something or another. And when someone come in, you showed them a
place to hang your coat or helped them to their seat, give them a song book, and
asked them to be in prayer. And then everybody set in their seat and silently prayed
until starting time. See? And then at starting time, Sister Gertie, the pianist, got up
there and started the music before--when the people are--are coming together. I
would suggest to have your organist to get up there with some real nice music. And if
she can't be here, put it on tape and then play it, or something another, and have
music, real sweet sacred music going on. So... And ask people... And if people goes
to talking and carrying on like that, let one of the deacons get up at the
microphone up there at the desk and say, "sh, sh, sh," like that. Say, "At the
Tabernacle here we--we want you to come to worship. Let's not make noise
now; listen to the music. Get your seat, set down, be reverent (See?), pray or

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page41
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

read the Bible. This in the sanctuary here is where the Lord dwells. And we
want everybody to be real reverent and worship, not to be running around,
talking before the services. Congregate yourself, and you've come here to talk to
the Lord. See? Either be in silent prayer (See?), or read your Bible."

  905-152 When I went into the Marble church up there at--at the... Norman Vincent
Peale, you've heard of him. You see? And I went into... A great psychology, he's a
teacher, you know. And I went into his church, I just thought that, "I wished my
Tabernacle would do that again." Them deacons standing right there at the door just
as soon as you come in. They, of course, they hand you a Sunday school slip, taken
you right down. You had to empty three times, you know, it only hold about four or
five hundred, you know; and New York's a big place, and he's a popular man. And I
think they had to have one class at ten o'clock and one at eleven, same sermon right
over again, same service exactly, same sheet of paper. But when they dismissed, and
they had (I believe) five minutes for the church to be exactly... Nobody else could
come in till they got out, then the deacons opened the way and the other church filled
up. They had those old box seats, you know, they go in like that, and set down in the
pews where you open the door. And old fashion, it's been standing there for--for
around two hundred years, I guess, the old Marble church has.

 905-153 And you could have heard a pin drop anywhere in that church, and
everybody in prayer for at least thirty minutes before the first note was ever hit on the
organ, the prelude. And just everybody in prayer. I thought, "How wonderful it is."
Then when that minister... That prelude, about... I think they played one prelude for
about three to five minutes, How Great Thou Art, or something like that, and on like
that. And then when they did, everybody stopped praying and was listening to the
prelude. See, it give a change from prayer to the prelude. And then when they played
that, then the choir leader directed the choir. Then they had a congregational song
and the choir. And then they were ready for their Sunday school class. See? And
then--and then when it was over, there was nothing went on except divine worship,
all the time, and that's what we come there for.

 905-154 And I think it would be a good thing if our church... And I'm just saying
this; we're going to do it. See? Let's do it. If somebody does anything, the thing...
And I think it'd be a good thing. If it's a good thing, then let's do it. See? We don't
want to put off any good thing; we'll do it anyhow. See? And just go ahead and--and
stand up there, and if they start on a morning, or something like that, people visiting,
just let some or one--one of the one of the deacons, or somebody walk up there and
say, "It's been made a rule in the Tabernacle here..."I don't know if they do it, they
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page42
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

may--they may. I'm never here (You see?); I don't know. I'm never here before
services. And when they come in and they start talking, let somebody get up there
and say, "Sh-sh-sh, just a moment." See? Let the--let the... Get a little sister, get her
up there and get her playing that music. If you don't, put it on tape and get it out there
(See?), of the organ music. And say, "Now, we're... There's a new rule in the
Tabernacle. When people enter here, we're not to whisper or talk, but to
worship. See? Now, just a few minutes the service will be starting. Until then, just
either read your Bible or bow your head and silently pray." And a few times like that,
they'll all learn. See, see?

  906-157 You hear somebody talking, and then it gets down for--after a few times
like that, after a while you hit a place where somebody say... See somebody talking,
nobody else talking (You see?), well, then one of the deacons walk up and say,
"We--we want you to worship during the time of the service (You see?)?" See? See,
it's not a house of talk, it's a house of worship. Understand? I think that was it:
Please explain... (Yeah. Let's see. Yeah)... Please explain how to... the deacons
should... in the sanctuary. Yeah, that's all. That's right. That's it.

  911-177 Now I say this, say if your services begin at seven-thirty, if that's the
time, open your church half hour beforehand, seven o-clock. Let the pianist... Tell the
organist... You pay her? You all pay the organist? Is she paid, or the pianist? She
does it free-will. Ask her with gentleness. Even if she wants to have pay for it, to give
her something for it, tell her we want her a half hour before service. And if she says,
"Well, I can't do it," or something, complaint, then just have her come here and make
a tape of some sweet organ music. You see? And let... put that on the... Don't have to
be here every time, set your tape up. See? Let one of the deacons, trustees, or ever
who opens, the janitor, put it on up there, the tape on, and let it be playing while the
people come. See? 'Cause if the deacons are not here, or somebody, let a trustee or
somebody be here to do it, then let them play for a half hour. But exactly
seven-thirty, let that bell toll on top the building. See? You still have your bell out
there? Yeah. All right, let your bell toll at seven-thirty, and that means that we're not
going to walk up and down the church and shake hands with Joneses and all that. Let
the song leader be on the job. If there's no song leader there, let the deacons see that
there--or the--see that there is somebody to start leading songs when that bell starts
tolling. "Turn to your hymn-book, number so-and-so." See? Let it be right on the dot
at--at seven-thirty.

 889-Q-228 043 Now, on the next one, is:
         228. Brother Branham, in respect to the order of the
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page43
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

         church we have tried to go accordingly to the way we
         understand the orders given in the dedication of the new
         church. And by doing so, some have gotten mad and left
         the church. And others will not listen to anything we say,
         especially the children. We have talked to the parents
         about their children, and they won't take care of them.
         Now, have we misunderstood? Or, are we going about it in
         the wrong way? Thanks.
          889-78 Now, let me answer this as they come down:
         In respect to the order of the church, we have tried to go
         accordingly to the way we understood it given in the
         dedication of the new church.


Now, that's correct; you're doing right. Now, this is supposed to be deacons, I
suppose, 'cause it's right here at the deacon's job. All right.

And by doing so, we have often... people has often gotten mad at us.

 889-79 They do at me too! They'll do it any man. See? A person that does that,
there's something wrong with that person. They're not right with God, for the Spirit
of Christ is subject to Christ's teaching, Christ's house, Christ's order. See? And any
man that, or any woman, or any persons, children, that would get angry with a godly
deacon, that would tell them to be... And, or any parent would get angry with a
deacon... Really, we want everybody in this church that we can get; but if that would
only cause trouble somewhere else, there's a thorn or, "a rabbit in the woodpile," as
we used to say it. That person isn't right.

 890-80 If they leave, there's only one thing to do: let them go, and pray for them.
See? Then maybe some of the deacons go to their church--or go to their house
sometime, and find out why they left, and ask them what was wrong. Then, and if
they... See if you can reconcile them. If you can't, then take two or three witnesses
with him, that they might be understood. Then if they can't be understood, then it's
told before the church if they are a member here of the church. Then they are...

 890-81 And then if they're not members of the church, 'course they're not members

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page44
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

of this congregation, they should be made to be ruly. See, they--they've got to listen
to our orders here, because this is the orders of the church. This is things we don't
want to do, things that I don't like to do, but it's things that must be doing. And
I'm exposing myself and telling here by this tape; it's me; they can hear me
talking and know that it's me, not you men. You've asked me these questions, and I'm
giving it to you the best that I know how from the Word of God.

 890-82 "Now, if those people get angry and go out from you, what does the
Scripture say about it, Brother Branham?"

 890-83 "They went out from us because they wasn't of us." That settles it. "Left the
church," that's what they did. All right.

           890-84    Others will not listen to anything we say,
         especially the children.

The children are supposed to know discipline; they should get it at home. But even if
it's mine, my kids get in here at anytime, they get disorderly, I don't want you to draw
one string; Sarah, Rebekah, Joseph, Billy, or whoever it might be. You tell me; I'll
see to it. If they can't behave, then they'll stay away from church till they do learn to
behave. This is not an arena; this is a house of God. This is not a place to play, and
skate, and write notes, and laugh, and cut up; this is the house of God, and is to be
carried out godly.

 890-85 You come here to worship, not even to visit. This is not a--this is not a
picnic ground; this is not a visitation place; this is the visitation place of the Holy
Spirit, listen to what He has to say, not to one another. We don't come here to--to
fellowship with one another; we come here to fellowship with Christ. This is the
house of worship. And children must be disciplined, and if they are of their parents.
Let it be known, that if these deacons... If these parents of the children will not listen
to what these deacons said, then this parent should be corrected themselves.

           891-86 We have talked to the parents about their children,
         and they won't take care of them.

If they are members of this church, then you should take two or three with you and
call that parent into a private meeting, into one of the offices. I don't care who it is, if
it's me, if it's Brother Neville, if it's Billy Paul and his little boy, if it's Brother Collins

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page45
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

and one of his children, or any of the rest of you. We're... We love one another, but
we're duty bound to God and this Word. If it's Doc, no matter who it is, we're to call
one another in and be honest with one another. How can God ever deal with us, if
we're not honest with one another? How we going to be honest with Him? See?

 891-87 This is an order; we must keep the house of God. And deacons are
supposed to know how to do that. See? And that's why I'm telling you now to
keep them things caught up. And if this, you tell the parents and they won't listen to
this--won't listen to it, then you get you another deacon or one of the trustees, or
some good person of this church, and call--take your trus... Take your deacon board,
all your deacons together, say, "Brother Jones, Brother Henderson, Brother Jackson,"
or whoever it might be, "their children are dis-behaving, and we've told them two or
three times about their children and they won't listen."

 891-88 Then call Brother Jones in, or Brother Whoever-it-is, and say, "Brother
Jones, we've called you in here for a meeting. We love you, and we... You're a part of
us; you're one of us. Let me just set this certain tape and listen what Brother Branham
said about it. See? Now, we've asked you to make those children behave. See? If they
won't behave, and you can't make them behave in church, leave them with someone
while you come to church until they learn how to behave themself in the house of
God." See? But this is an order; it's got to be carried out. See?

           892-89 Now the other question goes on:
                  Now, have we misunderstood?

No, sir. You haven't misunderstood; that's correct. I'm saying it again, the orders. In
the army they don't ask you, "Will you go do a certain thing?" If you're in the army,
you're compelled to do it. See? And that's the way it is in the... I'm compelled to
preach the Gospel. I'm compelled to stand for this regardless of what my other men
and brethren and so forth say about it; I'm compelled to do this. I have to hurt
feelings and cut men to pieces, but if I...

 892-90 You don't want to get like Oswald. See? If you can't disagree with a man
and things, then shake his hand and still have the same feelings towards him, then
there's something wrong with you. If I can't disagree with a man, bitterly, from
one side to the other, and still think as much of him as--as Christ would, then
there's something wrong with my spirit; I haven't the Spirit of Christ. See?

 892-91 If he says, "Well, Brother Branham, I--I believe that your teaching is this,
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page46
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

that."

  892-92 "All right, Brother, let's come together to reason, you and I. We'll take it
ourselves. We'll go over here in the room to ourself; we'll reason it out." And he just
cuts me to pieces, and I have to say things back to him. If in my heart I can't feel the
same about him, that he's still my Brother and I'm trying to help him, then I'll never
help him; there's no way for me to help him. If I don't love him, what's the use in
going over there? Tell him, "The first place first, brother, I don't love you, and let me
get that out of my heart right here before we go in there, because I can't help you until
I love you."

  892-93 And that's right, and that's the way. See, carry it on; you've done it exactly
right; that's the way it should be. You never misunderstood it.

          892-94 Are we going about it the wrong way?

No, it is the right way to carry that. Let order be kept. Because it's constantly... Now,
little children and mothers, little babies and things, they--they'll cry, and if they get
crying too much and interrupting your pastor up there, remember, you are his
bodyguards; you're his Gospel bodyguards. See? And if it's interrupting the
message of the Lord, then you are deacons, what are you to do? Just like a man
speaking in tongues, he's duty bound. And a man preaching, he's duty bound to the
Word, he's duty bound to these things. Each one of you is duty bound to an office,
and that's--and that's just what we're--we're here to do.

 893-95 Now, we don't want to wait too long, and I know I got an appointment in a
few minutes, so I'll--I'll just try to hurry as quick as I can.

          893-Q-229 Brother Branham... There's three, two questions on
         this card here. Brother Branham, what should be the policy of
         taking up offerings in the church for people? How should this be
         done?

I think taking up offerings in the church for people should not be done unless it's for
your pastor. And I think if someone comes in for charity, or something like that that...
Or someone in--in bad need, like one of our members here or congregation, say if one
of our brothers, and they had some trouble; well, I think then that should be
announced at the platform, and let the pastor do that, I think it's his duty to do that;
some brother that's in need of something, let him present it to the church, if it wants
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page47
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

to be taken that way. If it's someone in need and--and then you don't want to take the
offering up for the person that's in need, then let the boards meet together and agree
upon certain sums that they want to give to this person out of the treasury. But if the
treasury's low at that time and they can't afford to do it, then it has to be taken up,
well, let--let the--let it be talked with the board, giving orders to the pastor, and let
the pastor ask for this certain thing. Say, "Now, tonight, our Brother Jones, he had
a--a horrible accident, his house burned down. And tonight, as Christians, we're
going together, to each one of us make a pledge of what we can do to help Brother
Jones back with his house again." See, or--or whatever it is. See, we--we do that. Let
that be said from the platform, that's the way to do that. And then let the pledges be
give in, and then give it over to the treasurer of the church. And these pledges be paid
through the treasurer of the church, and give to them. And--and give the person a
receipt for it, 'cause I don't know whether that's tax redemption or not; I guess it is for
something like that.

  894-98 Now, but when it comes to like a--a stranger come in, a stranger come in
like he's... A man comes in and says, "Well, you know what? I--I--I'm on a journey,
and I--I blowed out a tire, and I want a new tire. Take me up an offering tonight for a
new tire." Now, that shouldn't be done. No, that should not be done. And if it seems
to--if it seems to be a worthy thing, of somebody that you know, the board could
meet and designate a certain amount of money from the treasurer to buy that man a
tire or whatever it was. Or either if the church treasury is low, and it's decided by the
board that these... The pastor shouldn't have nothing to do in this, the--the deacons is
supposed to do this (See?), or the boards. And now if this... If it's agreed, then give to
the pastor, the pastor can take the offering. But, notice, if it's a stranger, and it's in an
emergency, a fellow needs a little money and you feel that it's for a just cause (now
this is my opinion), if it's for a real just cause and you know it is for a just cause...

 894-99 Now, first, if you go up there and look on my books at the house of people
coming by and say, "I'm Reverend So-and-so from this certain-certain church, and
I--I had some trouble down the road here, and I--I need a set of tires," and knowed
that I just come in from the meeting and had an offering, or something another like
that, I'd give it to him nearly to go get a set of tires. And look in the minutes, there
never was such a minister as that, never lived in such a place. And there is ten or
twenty thousand dollars on the books from these years that I've give out like that,
never know nothing about them where they was. Come to find out, other ministers
say, "Why, he made me for so-and-so and so-and-such. Now, the church is not
responsible, only for their own. That's right. Their own, they're responsible.


Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page48
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

 894-101 But if there seems to be a worthy cause, and then if you--if you trustees
might say, "Well now, wait a minute. This man, there he is, his car down there, that's
his did happen, and this. It's not of our congregation (See?), but it is." Then if they
want to do it like that, and would say something special about an outsider... Not our
own, now (See?), not our own people, our own people be taken up right here
amongst their--their own, their brothers here. See? But if it's somebody on the
outside, and a fellow says he's hungry or--and somebody wants to reach down in his
pocket and give him some charity, that's up to you; but I'm talking about from the
church. And then if the church people are asked to donate, then...

  895-104 Now, if you got an evangelist, of course, in here preaching, then you
take... you... That's understood before he comes, you know, that you'll give him an
offering, or pay him salary, or whatever he wants to do. But then if this person is
here, and it's for a just cause, and the pastor, and the board would want to agree and
tell the pastor upon it, then let the pastor say, "A certain-certain person is setting here;
we don't know the man; he come in and he asked us for... He says his children are
hungry. We haven't got the time... We haven't had the time to investigate
the--the--the--the--the claim." See?

 895-106 If there's anything like that, then our--our... If there's anything among our
own, our--our own deacons go investigate those claims. See? And then if it's worthy,
then do it. If it isn't worthy, don't do it: don't have to. But now if it's a man here,
you--you--you let the pastor say, "Now, the trustee board told me they did not know
this person. But the man is setting here; he says his name is Jim Jones," or whatever it
might be, "and he's setting right here. Would you stand up, Mr. Jones? Now, Mr.
Jones, at the end of the service, you stand just at the back door there, as you go out.
And if any people feel in your heart, or anything that you want to do for this man,
give it to him as you go out." Is that understood now? Did you get that on your... To
those who are on the tape... And one of the... Brother Collins missed it on his tape. I
want to reinstate that quotation again if... 'cause he's one of the deacons.

  895-108 If--if there be any of the--one man comes in that you--and is in
emergency, and he wants an offering from the church, let the trustees or deacons
meet together, and let the--meet together, and make this decision, then tell the pastor
that it might be done like this. Let them... Let the pastor say that this certain man, call
him by name, "we know him not. And our policy here is to--to investigate before we
take offerings for people, and, that is, of our own. But this man here, he says he's
broke down; he's had an emergency; he's got sick children; he's trying to get medicine
for his children," or whatever it might be, the emergency. "Now, he's standing right
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page49
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

here, Would you stand up, sir?" See, and let him stand up. And say, "Now you people
see what--who he is. Now, at the close of this service this man shall stand there at the
front door, and people going out, that feel that you want to contribute to this, you're
at liberty; we only announced it in the church." You're not sanctioning it; you're only
announcing it. See, that's hospitality to a stranger. See? Understand now? All right. I
think that settles that question.

  876-23 Now, on this, as I have noticed your church growing, and noticed it.
And in the church, here's the way we had it first, and this is the way we--we want it
again. Now, if you don't watch, when babies... The first thing a baby does is try to
talk when he can't talk. See? He makes a lot of bubble, and noise, and--and so forth,
but he thinks he's just--he can out-talk the preacher at that time. Well, we find that
not only in the natural life, but we find that in the spiritual life also. It's a little one.
And if you try to correct that baby and spank him a little bit because he's "gooing"
and trying to talk, you'll ruin the child (See?) and you'll hurt him. And it's best to let
that baby grow a little while until he actually can speak his words right, and then tell
him when. Not when papa's talking or when mama's talking. But when it's
appropriate time, let him have his say. Do you understand me? Now, let him talk
when his time comes to talk.

  876-25 Now, if I've ever had anything that's been a thorn in my flesh out in the
meeting, it's someone to rise up when I'm speaking and then give a message in
tongues and break the Spirit. I just come out of a meeting in New York and different
places to where ministers let that go on time after time, and it's nothing but--but a
confusion. See, when God is dealing in one line of thought, He... It would be--it
would... He would be defeating His own purpose, if He's trying to get a line of
thought to you, to the congregation, to make an altar call and something butt in. For
instance, like this. We're setting at the table, talking, and we're talking about the
Lord. And junior runs in to the table real quick, takes all the attention away from
what we're doing, and he hollers, scream out, "Dad, mom. My, my. I just hit a home
run down at the team. And we done all this, that, and the other." And when we were
right on a real right-down sacred subject... Now, him hitting a home run, that's all
right. At the baseball game, that's all right. But he's out of order when he breaks in on
the message that we're talking about. Let him wait till his time comes and then tell us
what he did at the baseball game.

 877-27 Now, that's just the same thing we find with gifts today. That's the reason
God cannot trust too many spiritual gifts with people; they don't know how to control
them. That's what's the matter today, the reason we don't have no more than we do.
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page50
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

And we do find there's a lot of impersonation of spiritual gifts. But I don't believe
that's so here in our church. I'm thankful for that. I don't believe it's an impersonation
at all. I believe we have genuine gifts, but we must know how to control those gifts.

  877-29 And then when you go to doing something good... Just like you was
working for a boss and you started out on the first of your job and you're willing to
take orders, then the boss has confidence in you and he will keep raising you up to a
higher office all the time. Now, I believe that time has struck the Branham
Tabernacle, to know what--to take the gifts that God gives us, that God can trust us
with something even greater than what we have got. But we cannot go along... And
you see a man that's always have to be telling him and everything... And remember,
"The spirit of the prophets is subject to the prophet," says the Scripture. When you
see a man that you have to correct, or a woman, and that person gets out of order, and
then you're telling him the Scriptural truth, then it shows that the spirit that's on them
isn't of God. Because the Bible said, "The spirit of the prophets," or, "prophesying,"
that's, testifying, preaching, speaking in tongues, or whatever it is, 'cause tongues
interpreted is prophecy. So it's subject to the prophet, and the Word is the Prophet. So
we--we see that it's out of order for a man or a woman to jump up and give a
message, no matter how much they want to do it, while the preacher is in the pulpit.


QUESTIONS & ANSWERS by William Marrion Branham                                             January 12, 1961

           584-Q-127 How should a brother be condemned whose weakness
         is to take a place in church without being asked to do so?

Oh, my. Well, suffer with him, I guess. See? How should a brother be condemned...
He shouldn't be condemned... whose--whose weakness is to take place in a church
without being asked to do so? For instance, if he wanted to--to be a deacon (See?),
and he's not asked to do so, yet he wants to be a deacon anyhow. See? Well, if a
person's like that, you know there's a little something, you know, weak somewhere
anyhow, and so I'd just kind of deal with him in love. And 'course, you never want
to--to do a thing like that unless you really know. Put your very best men you can on
your board (You see?) like that. Brother, don't never get nothing in there that's... Test
that man, first. A deacon's got more responsibility than the pastor has. He's to
be blameless, a deacon is. See?




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page51
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


A PLACE OF WORSHIP, HOLY, CONSECRATED
GOD IN SIMPLICITY                             by William Marrion Branham                     March 17, 1963


  4-4 So now, now in the building I think that we ought to have in this, if it's been
dedicated (or going to be dedicated in a few minutes to the worship of God), we
should keep it that way. We should never buy or sell in the building. We should
never do any business in this auditorium here; it should never be done in here. That
is, such as permitting ministers to come in and sell books and everything. No matter
what it is, there's other places to do that...?... We--we shouldn't buy and sell in the
house of our Lord. It should be a place of--of worship, holy, consecrated for that
purpose. See? Now, He's give us a nice place; let's dedicate it to Him and dedicate
ourselves with it to Him.

 5-1 And now, this may seem a little rude, but it's not a place to visit; it's a place of
worship. We should never even murmur a word inside of here, outside of worship, to
one another unless it's absolutely necessary. See? We should never rally around; we
should never run through the building or let our children run through the building.
And so doing this, feeling not long ago that--of doing this, we constructed it so we
could take care of all of it. Now, we have this set here... 'Course many people are
strangers. The Tabernacle folks know this, that the building is going to be dedicated
to the service of the Almighty.

  5-3 Therefore, dedicating ourselves, let's remember when we enter that sanctuary,
keep still to one another and worship God. If we want to visit each other, there's
places we may visit each other like that but never walking around where you can't
hear yourself think, and some person come in, and they just don't know what to do.
See? It's so much noise and things, it's just humanly... And I've seen it in churches
until it has made me feel real bad, because we do not come into the sanctuary of the
Lord to meet each other; we come here to worship God, then go to our homes. This
sanctuary's dedicated to worship. When... Stand outside; talk anything you wish to as
long as it's right and holy; go to one another's homes; visit one another in places; but
when you enter that door, be quiet. You come here to talk to Him (See?) and let Him
talk back to you. The trouble of it is, we do too much talking and don't listen enough.
Then when we come in here, wait on Him.

 5-6 Now, in the old Tabernacle, there might not be one person present this
morning that was there the day of the dedication, when Major Ulrich played the
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page52
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

music, and I stood behind three crosses here to dedicate the place. I would not permit
anybody... The ushers stood at the door to see that nobody talked. When you done
your talking outside, you come in. If you desired to, silently you come to the altar and
prayed silently. You walked back to your seat, opened up the Bible. What your
neighbor done, that was up to him. You had nothing to say. If you want to talk to
him, say, "I'll see him outside. I'm in here to worship the Lord." You read His Word
or set quietly.

  6-1 And then the music--Sister Gertie, I don't know whether she's here this morning
or not, Sister Gibbs. The old piano, I believe, set back in this corner the best of my
remembrance. And she would play softly, "Down at the cross where my Saviour
died," some real sweet soft music, and--and then until it come time for the service,
and the song leader got up and led a couple of congregational songs, and then if they
had some outstanding solo, they sang it, but never just a bunch of carrying on. And
then the music continually played, and then when I heard that, I knowed it was my
time to come out. When a minister walks into a congregation of people praying in the
anointing of the Spirit, you're bound to hear from heaven. That's just all. There's no
way to keep from it. But if you walk into confusion, then you--you're--you're so
confused, the Spirit's grieved. And...We don't want that, no. We want to come here to
worship. We have lovely homes that I'm going to speak about just in a minute and so
forth at home, where we visit our friends and take them. This is the house of the
Lord.

  6-4 Now, there's little children, now, little babies. Now, they don't know no
different. They... The only way they can get what they want is cry for it. And
sometimes it's a drink of water, and sometimes they need attention. And so we have
by the grace of God dedicated a room; it was called on the list a "cry room," but it's
right straight in front of me. It's, other words, where the mothers can take their baby.
Now, it's never bothers maybe me here at the pulpit; maybe I won't even notice it,
being anointed, but there's other people setting near, and it bothers them. See? And
they come here to hear the service. So the mothers, if your little baby starts
whimpering, you can't help that. Why, sure it's a... You should, you ought to bring it.
A real mother wants to take her baby to church, and that's the thing you should do.
And we've got a room there to where you can see every corner of the building, all the
auditorium, and a speaker there to where you can control the volume any way you
want to, with a--a little toilet in the end, and water basin, and everything just exactly
for the mother's convenience. With chairs and things you can set down, a place to
change your baby if it needs to be changed and everything setting there. It's all fixed.


Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page53
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

  7-1 And then, many times teen-age children and sometimes adults will get to, you
know, young people will pass notes or cut up or something in church. Now, you're
old enough to know better than that. See? You should know better than that. See?
You shouldn't come here... If you expect to be a real man someday and raise a family
to the Kingdom of God, then start it off in the beginning (You see?), and--and act
right and do right. And now, 'course... Now, the ushers stands at the corners of the
buildings and so forth and if any carrying on, they are--they're ordained as their duty
(and trustees set here in the front) that in a case of someone getting misbehaving, they
are--are commissioned to ask the person to keep quiet.

 7-3 Then if they don't have that respect, it would be better that someone else had
the seat, because there's somebody that wants to hear. There's somebody come for
that purpose to hear and that's what we're here for, is to hear the Word of the Lord.
And so everybody wants to hear, and we want it just as quiet as they can be--just as
quiet as they can be. That is, not a bunch of talking and carrying on. Of course,
somebody worshipping the Lord; that's expected. That's what it should be; that's what
you're here for, is to worship the Lord. And just if you feel like praising God or
shouting, just go right on (See?), 'cause that's what you're here for (See?), but--is to
worship the Lord in your own way of worshipping. But there's nobody worships the
Lord while you're talking and passing notes, and you're helping somebody else to get
away from the worship of the Lord. See?

  7-5 So we feel that that would be wrong, and we want to make that a ruling in our
church, that in--in our congregation, that to this building, this church will be
dedicated to the Kingdom of God and to the preaching of the Word. Pray; worship;
that's the reason you should come here, to worship. Then... And then another thing,
when service is over usually the people in churches... I don't--I don't think it's here
'cause I'm always gone (See?), 'cause I get away usually even in preaching other
services, the anointing comes, and visions happen, and I'm wore out, and I step off
into the room, and maybe Billy or some of the men there take me on to home and let
me rest awhile till I get out of it, 'cause it's a very much of a strain. And then, I have
seen churches though, to where the children were permitted to run all over the
sanctuary, and--and the adults stand and holler across the room to one another. That's
a good way to ruin the service coming that night or whatever time it is, See?

 8-2 As soon as the service is dismissed leave the auditorium. You're through in
the worship then. Then go out and talk to one another and whatever you want to do.
If you've got something you want to talk to somebody, to see them, why, you go with
them or to their home or whatever it is, but don't do it in the auditorium. Let's
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page54
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

dedicate this to God. See? This is His meeting place where we meet with Him. See?
And the law goes forth from the sanctuary, of course. And I--I believe that that would
be pleasing to our heavenly Father.

  8-3 And then when you come and you get to find out that gifts are beginning to fall
among you... Now, usually it... I'll trust it'll never be here. But when people have a
new church, the first thing you know, the congregation begin to get starchy. You
never want that to be. After all, this is a place of worship. This is the house of the
Lord. And if spiritual gifts begin to come among you... I understand that since I've
been gone that people have moved in here from different parts of the country to make
this their home. I'm thankful, grateful to God that I believe that the morning when I
dedicated and laid that cornerstone there as a young man, I prayed for its standing to
see the coming of Jesus Christ. And when I did, owing thousands of dollars--and
they... You could take up an offering in a congregation of this size and get thirty or
forty cents, and our obligation was somewhat a hundred an fifty, two hundred dollars
a month. How could I ever do it? And I knowed that I was working, and I would pay
it off. I... Seventeen years of pastoral without taking one cent, but giving everything
that I had myself, outside of my living, and all that come into the little box on the
back to the Kingdom of God... And people prophesied and predicted that within a
year's time, it would be turned into a garage.

 9-1 Satan tried to take it away from us one time in a flaw, in a fraud of a lawsuit:
some man claimed he hurt his foot while he was working on it, and then let it go, and
then--and he sued and wanted to take the Tabernacle. And for weeks I stood at the
post, but in spite of all the misunderstandings and the predictions and what they said,
she stands today as one of the prettiest auditoriums and the finest churches there is in
the United States. That's right.

 9-2 From here has went the Word of the living God around the world (See?),
around the world, and it's constantly taken its circle around the globe from every
nation under heaven as far as we know, around and around the world. Let us be
thankful for this. Let us be grateful for this. And now that we have a place to dwell
in, a roof under our heads, a clean nice church to set in; let's dedicate ourselves newly
to the task and consecrate ourselves to Christ. And...

 9-3 Brother Neville, our noble brother and real pastor, servant of the living God, as
far as that man knows the message, he holds with it with all he's got. That's right.
He's a gentle person; he's a little afraid to--or not afraid, I don't mean that, but he's
so--so awful gentle; he just will--doesn't speak out. You know, like to--to say a thing
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page55
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

that's sharp and cutting or "set down," or "keep still." I--I've noticed that and listened
to the tapes behind it. But it so happens that I can do that, so I--I--I want you to
remember my words. You see? And this is all being taped (See?); everything is
taped. And please let every deacon stand to his post of duty and remember that
you're under a commission from God to hold that post sacred (See?), every trustee
the same.

  9-5 Pastor is to bring forth... It isn't the pastor's place to have to say that; it's the
trustees--or I mean the deacons, for they are the police of the church. That is, if
young couples come on the outside and blow horns, and you know how they usually
do, or something like that at meetings or--or get out there... And mother sends her
girl down here, and she takes off out with some renegade kid and runs out there in the
car, and her mother thinks she's in church like that, the deacon ought to see to that.
"You either come in here and set down, or I'm going to take you in my car and take
you home to your mother." See? You--you must do that.

 10-1 Remember, love is corrective (See?), always. Genuine love is corrective. So
you must be able to stand the correction. And mothers know now that there's a place
there for your babies. You young kids know different than to run around over the
building. See? And you adults know different than to talk and carry on your
conversations in the auditorium. See? Don't do that; it's wrong. It isn't pleasing to
God. Jesus said, "It is written: My house shall be made a house of worship, prayer,
called the house of prayer by all nations." And they were buying and selling, and He
plaited ropes and ran the people out of the auditorium. And we certainly don't want
that to happen in this sanctuary here. So let's dedicate our lives, our church, our tasks,
our service, and everything we have to the Kingdom of God.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page56
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


FASTING
1. To abstain from food. 2. To eat very little or abstain from certain foods, especially as a religious
discipline. --fast n. 1. The act or practice of abstaining from or eating very little food. 2. A period
of such abstention or self-denial. [Middle English fasten, from Old English fæstan. See past-
below.] American Heritage Dictionary


FAST, FASTING - going without food or drink voluntarily, generally for religious purposes.
Fasting, however, could also be done for other reasons. It was sometimes done as a sign of distress,
grief, or repentance. The law of Moses specifically required fasting for only one occasion-the DAY
OF ATONEMENT. This custom resulted in calling this day "the day of fasting" (Jer. 36:6) or "the
Fast" (Acts 27:9).
Moses did not eat bread or drink water during the 40 days and 40 nights he was on Mount Sinai
receiving the law (Ex. 34:28). Voluntary group fasts (not specified in the law) were engaged in
during time of war, such as when the Benjamites defeated the other Israelites (Judg. 20:26), and
when Samuel gathered the people to Mizpah during the Philistine wars (1 Sam. 7:6). It was at a
called fast that witnesses accused Naboth, setting the stage for his death (1 Kin. 21:9, 12).
Jehoshaphat called for a fast in all Israel when opposed by the Moabites and Ammonites (2 Chr.
20:3). Reacting to Jonah=s preaching, the men of Nineveh, at the king=s order, fasted and put on
sackcloth (Jon. 3:5). Those about to return with Ezra from the Captivity fasted at the river of
Ahava because of the dangers faced on the journey (Ezra 8:21, 23). Esther and the Jews of Shushan
(or Susa) fasted when faced with the destruction planned by Haman (Esth. 4:3, 16; 9:31).
In times of grief, people fasted. A seven-day fast was held when the bones of Saul and his sons
were buried (1 Sam. 31:13; 1 Chr. 10:12). Fasting was practiced during the 70 years of the exilic
period on the fifth and the seventh months, the date the siege of Jerusalem began and the date when
Jerusalem fell to the Babylonians (Zech. 7:5).
Fasting was practiced by individuals in times of distress. David fasted after hearing that Saul and
Jonathan were dead (2 Sam. 1:12). Nehemiah fasted and prayed upon learning that Jerusalem had
remained in ruins since its destruction (Neh. 1:4). Darius, the king of Persia, fasted all night after
placing Daniel in the lions= den (Dan. 6:18).
Going without food or water was not automatically effective in accomplishing the desires of those
who fasted. In the prophet Isaiah=s time, people complained that they had fasted and that God had
not responded favorably (Is. 58:3-4). The prophet declared that the external show was futile. The
fast that the Lord requires is to loose the bonds of wickedness, undo the heavy burdens, feed the
hungry, shelter the poor, and clothe the naked (Is. 58:5-7).
Fasting also occurs in the New Testament. Anna at the Temple "served God with fastings and
prayers night and day" (Luke 2:37). John the Baptist led his disciples to fast (Mark 2:18). Jesus
fasted 40 days and 40 nights before His temptation (Matt. 4:2). Using a marriage-feast comparison,
however, Jesus insisted that fasting was not suitable for His disciples as long as He, the
Bridegroom, was with them (Matt. 9:14-15; Mark 2:18-20; Luke 5:33-35).




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page57
    Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                                                2007

Cornelius was fasting at the time of his vision (Acts 10:30). The church in Antioch fasted (Acts
13:2) and sent Paul and Barnabas off on the first missionary journey with fasting and prayer (Acts
13:3). Paul and Barnabas prayed with fasting at the appointment of elders in the churches (Acts
14:23). Paul suggested that husbands and wives might abstain from sexual intercourse for a while
to give themselves to fasting and prayer (1 Cor. 7:5). Ronald F. Youngblood, general editor; F.F. Bruce and R.K. Harrison,
consulting editors, Nelson=s new illustrated Bible dictionary: An authoritative one-volume reference work on the Bible with full color illustrations
[computer file], electronic edition of the revised edition of Nelson=s illustrated Bible dictionary, Logos Library System, (Nashville: Thomas Nelson)
1997, c1995.


Matthew 6:1B18 Jesus gave three areas in the practice of righteousness, wherein the Pharisees,
by overt display, perverted true worship and turned it into an effort to gain public approval: (1)
almsgiving (vv. 2B4), (2) prayer (vv. 5B15), and (3) fasting (vv. 16B18). Verse 1 states the general
principle regarding the motive of righteousness, which is then developed by these three examples.
Motives that underlie deeds or words give to them their true moral quality. W.A. Criswell, Believer=s study
Bible [computer file], electronic ed. , Logos Library System, (Nashville: Thomas Nelson) 1997, c1991 by the Criswell Center for Biblical Studies.


 BE NOT AFRAID                                            by William Marrion Branham                                            June 9, 1960

E-14 Someone said to me (I believe it was last evening) said, "Brother Branham,
where does this come from? How are you able to go meeting after meeting, staying
under the anointing, and... Even one sign made Jesus weak when the woman touched
His garment." Said, "I see you stand for a hour under that." I said, "I'd like to tell you.
Here's where it lays: he don't want me to say this, but my brother setting here, Gene
Goad, that boy don't touch bread or water for days, fasting and praying. Here sets Pat
Tyler, this other brother setting here by him. Them men lay on their faces without
food and water when I'm in a meeting, praying for me. That's where it comes from. If
there wasn't something like that, I'd go down." That's the men behind the curtain. The
man who prays for strength for a message, that they lay down everything. Maybe
they haven't got the gifts to do those things, but they're putting every effort they can
to support it. And the only way they can do it they know, is prayer before God and
fasting. There's where power lays: let someone pray for you.

ATTITUDE AND WHO IS GOD? by William Marrion Branham August 8, 1950
 E-10 The nights grow on. Of course, I tire, and tire more. It is a truth that I believe,
as a physical man tears down, the spiritual man has a chance. That's what fasting and
things are for. He can have a chance to work upon these five senses of ours, to bring
us to believe and have faith in Him. I like the attitude of this centurion tonight, that
we've just read of. He--he was a man that felt unworthy. As long as you're feeling
unworthy of the blessing you're asking, you're pretty apt to get it. But when you get
to a place where you think that God just owes it to you, that's when you're--you're
mistaken. We're in debt to God, not God in debt to us. We're indebted to God.

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                                   Page58
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



ENTICING SPIRITS                       by William Marrion Branham                            July 24, 1955

 111f There's nothing in the Word tells you to have a forty day fast, not a thing.
Nothing in the world telling you to fast 'less God would tell you. And if you fast, you
ain't going to get hungry and go all these things. After your fasting, brother, you'll be
joy and happy all the time. Said, "Don't appear before men like hypocrites do with a
long sad face. I'm on a forty day fast; my plates won't fit me anymore. I've lost thirty
pounds, and they told me I looked better after this is over." Oh, nonsense. It's enticing
spirits of the devil.

INTER VEIL                           by William Marrion Branham                              January 21, 1956

 E-26 Christianity is not something, God's not One you have to beg, and cry, and
plead, and fast, and starve, and everything like that to get to. Certainly not. I'm not
degrading a fast. But here not long ago, a man wrote a book on fasting. My, women
come into the meeting, and men, who'd went on those fasts that were insane. They
went just because the book said to fast forty days. Some of them with false plates,
and their teeth would drop out. And their eyes would sink back. And mothers-to-be
to... women to be mothers, their little ones as you understand, they would completely
go mentally out, and be taken to the institutions. Many, many of them, come in that
condition. I believe in fasting. Certainly. But when you fast, you don't hunger. Jesus
after He had got through fasting, the Bible said, He was hungry. God puts a fast on
you. You don't put it on yourself. He certainly captured the women, the man did that
wrote the book, when he said, put a picture of a woman there, she looked twenty
years younger, said, after the fast. You ought to seen her then, just about a year later
what she looked like, after that. See? Certainly. You don't do that. You don't do
things by works. It's by grace. God in sovereign grace...

RESURRECTION OF LAZARUS by William Marrion Branham August 13, 1950
E-5 And many times that way, I hold myself on the gift. Now, it's not around me
now, 'cause I haven't been praying. I got up, had just a little bite of breakfast, and I
won't eat any more, probably, till after the services, and so forth. I have to keep
empty. If you're--if you keep stomach empty, the blood is at your brain, and you
must be ready. And if you're all full when you're... That's the power of fasting. When
you're--when you're full, the blood goes into your stomach to digest your food. You
see? And then when you're empty, it's in your--in your brain. So you can be just...
'Cause them two spirit is so close it could deceive the very elect, if possible. And

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page59
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

many pe--many times you hear It cry. I've heard people shout. Now, as I told you, I
hope I--God that has let me find favor with you that you believe me. I've heard
people shout when it wasn't God. I've heard people cry when it wasn't God. See? And
their sympathy sometimes, the devil wants to be petted. And it--it takes a real sheep
raiser to know the difference between the bleat of a goat and a lamb; they're so close
together. You see? And so therefore, on this platform, you must be very careful. Can
be just one thing is all that Satan wants to--wants to throw out before the public. So
therefore, I have to be fasting, prayerful, every minute on the guard, watching for
something.

                                                    NOTES




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page60
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


TWO OPINIONS
At Kadesh Barnea                              by William Marrion Branham                       May 27, 1956

 E-62 You've got a decision to make. Your Kadesh, you see it stand much longer;
why you halt between two opinions? Why isn't the church on fire; why isn't the place
packed out with people; why isn't great signs and wonders done? Don't lay it on to
the pastor; it's you. We got a mixed multitude; one pulling one way and one the other.
You've got to come to a time of decision. If it's the pastor, fire him, get him out and
put somebody else in who will take his place. If it's a deacon, take him off the board
and put somebody else in his place that'll take the place. What are you going to do,
brother? God put the responsibility upon you. That's it. And we've each one got to
give an account for our own sins and answer at the day of judgment.


GOD=S COMMISSION
God in Simplicity                    by William Marrion Branham                     March 17, 1963

  9-3 Brother Neville, our noble brother and real pastor, servant of the living God, as
far as that man knows the message, he holds with it with all he's got. That's right.
He's a gentle person; he's a little a--afraid to--or not afraid, I don't mean that, but he's
so--so awful gentle; he just will--doesn't speak out. You know, like to--to say a thing
that's sharp and cutting or "set down," or "keep still." I--I've noticed that and listened
to the tapes behind it. But it so happens that I can do that, so I--I--I want you to
remember my words. You see? And this is all being taped (See?); everything is
taped. And please let every deacon stand to his post of duty and remember that
you're under a commission from God to hold that post sacred (See?), every
trustee the same.

  9-5 Pastor is to bring forth... It isn't the pastor's place to have to say that; it's
the trustees--or I mean the deacons, for they are the police of the church. That is,
if young couples come on the outside and blow horns, and you know how they
usually do, or something like that at meetings or--or get out there... And mother sends
her girl down here, and she takes off out with some renegade kid and runs out there
in the car, and her mother thinks she's in church like that, the deacon ought to see to
that. "You either come in here and set down, or I'm going to take you in my car and
take you home to your mother." See? You--you must do that.

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page61
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



 10-1 Remember, love is corrective (See?), always. Genuine love is corrective. So
you must be able to stand the correction. And mothers know now that there's a place
there for your babies. You young kids know different than to run around over the
building. See? And you adults know different than to talk and carry on your
conversations in the auditorium. See? Don't do that; it's wrong. It isn't pleasing to
God. Jesus said, "It is written: My house shall be made a house of worship, prayer,
called the house of prayer by all nations." And they were buying and selling, and He
plaited ropes and ran the people out of the auditorium. And we certainly don't want
that to happen in this sanctuary here. So let's dedicate our lives, our church, our tasks,
our service, and everything we have to the Kingdom of God.


IN THE LINE OF DUTY
Questions & Answers                           by William Marrion Branham                       January 12, 1961

 585-465 What if they had come to the altar and Brother Neville was still in his
sermon, and he was preaching? I'd have went to the altar with the man, if he'd have
got up out of the meeting while he was preaching, went up to the altar. I'd have seen
my brother was--that he had the anointing of the Spirit. He was ministering. He was a
minister in the... He was in the line of duty, a minister in the line of duty. And you
should never let them speak with tongues, interrupt, or any way, a minister in the line
of duty. Yes, if the Holy Spirit's speaking to somebody and they run to the altar to get
saved, let the minister continue on with his line of duty; let a pastor, deacon,
associate, if there's an associate or any other minister, let him take to that person right
quick. And don't bother the minister in the line of duty. See?

          589-Q-131 Question: Is it ruling, r-u-l-i... Is it ruling that a deacon
         or a trustee must abide in the doctrine of their church? (Yes. That's
         right.) Is it lawful for them to add to or take away of the teachings
         because of their own personal opinion or revelation? (No, sir. No.)

A deacon or a trustee should be perfectly in harmony with the--with the
doctrine of their church. They should stay perfectly with the interpretation of
the Scriptures of their church, because, if they don't, they're fighting against the
very thing... They're--they're hurting themselves. See? You're battling...It's, other
words, like if--if--if I say I love my family and try to feed them poison. See, same
thing. See, you can't do that, you...A--a trustee or a deacon in taking their office, or
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page62
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

any officer of a church that represents a certain church body (See?) that represents a
church...That's the reason I walked out of the Baptist church (See?) for the very first
time. I'd just been in there a little bit and they--they asked me to ordain some woman
preachers. Well, I couldn't actually stay in it. I said, "I--I--I refuse to do it." And the
pastor jerked me up. "What's this? You're an elder." I said, "Doctor Davis, in all due
respects to the Baptist faith, and everything that I have been ordained to, I did not
know that it was in the doctrine of the Baptist church to ordain women. That was one
thing that was left out of it." And he said, "That is the doctrine of this church."I said,
"Sir, could I be excused for tonight, or would you answer some questions for me?"
See? He said, "I'll answer your questions." Said, "It's your duty to be there." I said,
"It is, sir. That's right. I'm supposed to anticipate in anything that this church does.
I'm in the line of duty, one of the local elders." And he said... I said, "Could you
explain to me why that in I Corinthians 14 or 15 there, where Paul said, 'Let your
women keep silent in the churches; it's not permitted them to speak.'"

  And he said, "Why, certainly." He said, "If... I can answer that." He said, "You see,
what it was," said, "Paul said... All--all the women was setting back in the corners,
popping off like they do a lot of the other time. He said, 'Don't let them do that.'
See?" I said, "Then explain II Timothy to me, where Paul said also, the same scribe,
the same apostle, said, 'I suffer not a woman to teach or to usurp any authority (See?),
but to--to be in obedience. For Adam was first formed and then Eve, and Adam was
not deceived but the woman being deceived... She's deceived. Now, I don't say she
wants to do anything wrong, but she's actually deceived in it. She shouldn't be a
teacher." He said, "Is that your personal opinion?" I said, "That's the Scripture's
opinion to my way of seeing it. That's what the Bible said." He said, "Young man,
you could have your license taken from you for that." I said, "I'll just save them the
trouble. I'll just give it, Doctor Davis." I said, "Not to any disregard to you..." And he
wouldn't do it though. He let it go, let it go by like that. Then he told me he'd hold an
open debate with me with it. And I said, "All right, just anytime." But he--he didn't
do that. So then a--a little later on then when the Lord spoke to me, and about
the--the Angel of the Lord came, then--then he just made fun of That. You see? And
then I--I just told him; I said, "Well, Doctor Davis, it's best that I get rid of this right
now (See?)," I said, "'cause it's going to be a burden. I'm just been ordained a little
bit, anyhow, so it's going to be a burden to me, so I just might as well get rid of it
right now." So therefore, if I could not stay in the Baptist church and teach Baptist
doctrine and take up for Baptist belief... If I did it--if I did it just because it was a
church, then I'm wrong (See?); I'm hiding something back. And if I--if I--if I'm
honest with myself, I'll go to the Baptist people (my pastor or whoever can explain it
to me) and ask them for a--a word of Life; if he can correctly show me where it's
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page63
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

right in the Scripture, and satisfies my feeling, then I'll speak it just the way they
speak it (See?), and I'll be a Baptist.

 That's the reason I am an independent. That's the reason that I do not belong to the
organizations, because I do not believe in organizations. And I believe it's
unscriptural for an organization. Therefore, I could not belong to any organization
and feel justified by doing it. See? Therefore, I do not take people in and make them
members and so forth like that, because I believe we're born to be members; we are
borned into the Church of the living God. See? We don't take people's names off the
book, and excommunicate them, and everything like that, because I believe that's not
in our--our duties to do that. I believe it's God does the excommunicating. See? But I
believe that the church, if there would be a brother that was doing something wrong...

 For instance, if--if they caught Brother Neville, or Brother Junior, or Brother, some
brother here, one of the deacons or trustees, or something another, doing something
wrong, I believe the thing to do is for the church to get together and pray for this
brother. If he still don't straighten up, then let a couple go with him, go to the brother
to be reconciled. And if then if he don't receive it, then tell it before the church. Then
if they don't receive it then, that's the time for the whole church then (See?); that's for
pastor, elders, and everything else to do it. I don't believe that any deacon board
has a right to throw anybody out of church, or any trustee board, or any pastor
has a right to do it. I think if anybody was to be disfellowshipped, would be
because of immoral living, or something like that, that he wasn't a fit person,
like a man coming in here defiling our girls or--or insulting our women, and things
like that, and still professing to be one of us here... See? Now, if he's out somewhere
else coming in, why, we have to do something about it, but, when it comes to a
person like that, a immoral person trying to make love to our wives, or--or insult our
daughters, or, you know, something another like that, or do something immorally
around her, or taking our little boys out and making perverts out of them, or
something, those things should be taken up, and then that fellow should be
excommunicated from the fellowship and not permitted to take communion with it;
because we're not supposed to do that. We're not. "If any eats unworthily, is guilty of
the Blood and body of the Lord," on that person.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page64
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


CONFRONTING SIN WITH LOVE

  I Timothy 5:1-2                 1 & Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father; and
                                 the younger men as brethren; 2 The elder women as
                                 mothers; the younger as sisters, with all purity.


GREEK LEXICON -- STRONG'S NUMBER

1969 EPIPLESSO AV -- REBUKE: to strike upon, beat upon 1b) to chastise
with words, to chide, upbraid, rebuke

3870 PARAKALEO AV -- INTREAT (3) -- beseech (43) -- comfort(23) exhort
(21) -- desire (8) -- pray (6) -- misc (4)

I) to call to one's side, call for, summon II) to address, speak to, (call to, call upon),
which may be done in the way of exhortation, entreaty, comfort, instruction, etc. 1)
to admonish, exhort 2) to beg, entreat, beseech; to strive to appease by entreaty 3) to
console, to encourage and strengthen by consolation, to comfort; to receive
consolation, be comforted 4) to encourage, strengthen 5) exhorting and comforting
and encouraging 6) to instruct, teach

The main focus of this passage lies within two verbs. The first, epiplesso (rebuke), is
a strong term that refers to a serve or formal reprimand. It implies that verbal rather
than physical violence is prohibited. A fallen Christian is not to be hammered with
harsh words. Rather, the Christian should be parakaleo (intreated) which means to
make an earnest implore. In other words strengthen the fallen Christian by holding
them up in their fallen state. Romans 15:4 states that scriptures are a source of
strength. As the Word and the Spirit of God strengthens believers, so must the
Christian come to the aid of the fallen individual. Galatians 6:1-2, addresses this
duty by saying,

         1 Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual,
         restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest
         thou also be tempted. 2 Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfil
         the law of Christ.



Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page65
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                                              2007

Confronting sin in the church is not to be done by violently attacking (verbally or
physically) fallen brothers and sisters. The sinning person must be lovingly
confronted, strengthened, and encouraged toward holy living. It is to be a restorative,
redemptive, remedial confrontation, one that must be done with an attitude of
gentleness. Consider II Timothy 2:24-26 as a point of reference,

         And the servant of the Lord must not strive; but be gentle unto all men,
         apt to teach, patient, 25 In meekness instructing those that oppose
         themselves; if God peradventure will give them repentance to the
         acknowledging of the truth; 26 And that they may recover themselves
         out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will.

The apostle Paul applies these principles for dealing with sin in the family of God to
four groups.


CONFRONTING OLDER MEN

Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father;

An older man is to be treated with respect by being appealed to as a father. The
context indicates that Paul has in mind the general category of older men not
necessarily the office of Elder according to the Greek word Presbuteros (older man /
elder). As a young man, Timothy was instructed to confront older sinning men with
the same respect and deference he would show to his own father.

RESPECT n 1 : high or special regard : esteem 2 pl : an expression of respect
         or deference.

DEFERENCE n : courteous, respectful, or ingratiating regard for another's wishes
          syn honor, homage, obeisance, reverence .
                           8 1995 Zane Publishing, Inc. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary 8 1994 by Merriam-Webster, Incorporated




The Bible proves to us that older men are to be treated with respect according to
Leviticus 19:32, Proverbs 4:1-4, 16:31, 20:29, 30:17, Job 32:4 & 6, Exodus 21:17.
Daniel=s appeal to Nebuchadnezzar is a model of how to approach a sinning older
man. In Daniel 4:27, Daniel showed great respect when confronting



Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                                  Page66
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

Nebuchadnezzar=s sin:

         Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and break
         off thy sins by righteousness, and thine iniquities by shewing mercy to
         the poor; if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquillity.

Another example is found in Paul=s counsel of Peter in Galatians 2:11-14:

          & But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face,
         because he was to be blamed. 12 For before that certain came from
         James, he did eat with the Gentiles: but when they were come, he
         withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the
         circumcision. 13 And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him;
         insomuch that Barnabas also was carried away with their
         dissimulation. 14 But when I saw that they walked not uprightly
         according to the truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter before them all, If
         thou, being a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the
         Jews, why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews?

A great lesson can be learned in these two passages of scripture. The key is that
although Paul and Daniel confronted the sin, they never lost respect and deference
when correcting the sinner. They never made an accusatory declaration, but gently
counseled with them. Confronting anyone in sin with gentleness is our responsibility
as believers especially when the sinner is an older man. Correction must be done
with reverence and respect.

CONFRONTING YOUNG MEN
A...the younger men as brethren;@

The scripture also give us instruction in approaching our young men. The individual
doing the correction must approach the younger man as a brother in a manner
demonstrating equality and not superiority. The believer should see a younger
believer as being of the same family and show love as one would show to family and
relatives. The interaction should reflect the absence of any hierarchy or self
righteousness. Consider the apostle John=s command to believers to love
each other as brothers:


Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page67
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



         He that saith he is in the light, and hateth his brother, is in darkness
         even until now. 10 He that loveth his brother abideth in the light,
         and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. 11 But he that hateth
         his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not
         whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes (I John
         2:9-11).

         & For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we
         should love one another. 12 Not as Cain, [who] was of that wicked
         one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own
         works were evil, and his brother's righteous. 13 Marvel not, my
         brethren, if the world hate you. 14 & We know that we have passed
         from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not
         his brother abideth in death. 15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a
         murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in
         him (I John 3:11-15).

Another example is exhibited in Joseph=s attitude toward his brothers despite their
evil treatment of him (cf. Gen. 45:4, 50:15). Peter exhorted believers to Alove the
brotherhood@ (I Peter 2:17), as did Paul: ABe devoted to one another in brotherly
love@ (Romans 12:10, Heb. 13:1).

Such love does not preclude confrontation of sin for love is corrective. But our
approach, demeanor and disposition should be in love. Paul=s instructions to the
Thessalonians are one of many guides in confronting Christian brothers caught in
transgression:

                  II THESSALONIANS 3:6, 14-15
          & Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus
         Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh
         disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us. 14
         And if any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man, and
         have no company with him, that he may be ashamed. 15 Yet count
         him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.

Brotherly confrontations are to be done in humility and love. Scripturally, this is the

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page68
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

correct spirit needed when confronting a younger man.


CONFRONTING OLDER WOMEN
AThe elder women as mothers;@

Mothers should always be treated gently with honor and respect regardless of the
circumstances. The Bible commands respect for mothers. Exodus 20:12 states,
AHonor your father and your mother, that your days may be prolonged in the land
which the Lord your God gives you@ ( Reference: Deut. 5:16). Proverbs goes to great
length to show us the importance of honoring mothers: AHear, my son, your father=s
instruction, and do not forsake your mother=s teaching@ (1:18); AMy son, observe the
commandment of your father, and do not forsake the teaching of your mother@ (6:20);
AListen to your father who begot you, and do not despise your mother when she is
old@ (23:22).

The scripture gives a good example of how to treat older women in the writings of
Paul. In Philippians 4:1-3, he gave advice on how to deal with two women who were
causing trouble in Philippi:

          & Therefore, my brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and
         crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. 2 I beseech
         Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord. 3
          And I intreat thee also, true comrade, help those women which laboured with
         me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellowlabourers, whose
         names are in the book of life.

Even though those two women were hindering the cause of Christ in Philippi, Paul
nevertheless responded to their harm in a gracious, gentle manner. Although he
rebuked then, he included them among the brethren that he loved. He also noted their
service to him in the cause of the Gospel. Paul lovingly treated them as he would his
own mother.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page69
     Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


CONFRONTING YOUNGER WOMEN
A...the younger women as sisters, in all purity.@

If you notice very closely, Paul is setting two criteria that we must adhere to when
dealing with younger women: treat them as sisters and in all purity. The purity of
younger women is to be protected. Incest was strictly forbidden by the Old
Testament law (References: Lev. 18:9-18, 20:17-19; Deut 27:22). Paul is stressing
that we must be indifferent to them in terms of lust. There are very few things a evil
as a elected official who sins mentally or physically with a young woman he is
helping spiritually. This is nothing short of incest in the spiritual realm. For this
reason, Paul adds this phrase Ain all purity.@

Nothing so easily makes or breaks an official as his conduct with women.
Thoughtlessness or indiscretion, as well as outright immorality, violate his calling to
lead the flock in all purity. Younger women must be confronted with their sin and
encourage to godliness. They must, however, never be led into sin, but be treated as
beloved spiritual sisters whose purity is the highest consideration.

The book of Proverbs gives us six ways to maintain purity in relationships with
younger women:

1.        AVOID THE LOOK - (6:25) A...neither let her take thee with her eyelids.@
                                       (Job 31:1) A I made a covenant with mine eyes; why
                                          then should I think upon a virgin?
2.        AVOID FLATTERY - (5:3) AFor the lips of a strange woman drop as an
                                honeycomb,        and     her    mouth       is   smoother        than
               oil:@ (Ref.: 2:16, 6:24, 22:14).
3.        AVOID THE THOUGHTS - (6:25) ALust not after her beauty in thine
                                        heart...@
4.        AVOID THE RENDEZVOUS - (7:7-12) AAnd beheld among the simple ones, I
          discerned among the youths, a young man void of understanding, passing through the
          street near her corner; and he went the way to her house, in the twilight, in the evening, in
          the black and dark night: and, behold, there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot,
          and subtil of heart. She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house: now is she
          without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner.@
          AVOID THE HOUSE - (7:25-27) ALet not thine heart decline to her ways, go not
          astray in her paths. For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong [men] have
          been slain by her. Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death@
          (Ref.: 5:8).

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page70
     Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007

5.        AVOID THE TOUCH - (7:13) ASo she caught him, and kissed him...@

This was the final step in a process that culminated in immorality.

As a solemn warning, never be alone with a woman. A man should always obey the
Word and never think himself above immoral violation of the Word when he puts
himself in this precarious situation. The Bible says, AAbstain from all appearance of
evil@ (I Thessalonians 5:22). Therefore, if the situation appears questionable, it is
best if avoided in the first place.

Paul=s instruction to Timothy and the related passages send a clear message to all
believers on how to confront sin in the spiritual family. It is therefore of great
importance that we have a solid foundation in the Scriptures that God may reveal
what He brought through His prophet in our day.


HANDLING A COMPLAINT
Hebrews                              by William Marrion Branham                              September 9, 1957

  337-278 But if there's any complaint against any member, if a member has a
complaint against one another, or something wrong, you're supposed to go to that
brother yourself and talk to him, you and he alone. Then if they won't receive it, then
the next thing takes place; you take one of the deacons or somebody, and go with you
to that brother. Then if he won't receive you, then you come, tell it to the church.
Then if the church... Then if he won't receive the church, then the Bible said, "Let
them be as a heathen and a Publican." That's right. And any persons that knows a
guilty person, and you don't go to them and talk, then you're the part of the Church of
God that's going to answer for that sin. That's right.

 337-280 And if any persons then has a--a complaint against a deacon, or against
the deacon, or somebody in the church, it takes three people. Three people would
come and say--witness at the mouth of two or three witnesses. Come tell the pastor
that there's a grievance against a deacon. Then if there's a grievance against a deacon,
the deacon isn't a just man, a perfect man... He must hold the office of a deacon
blameless, and then found blameless. And if that congregation finds out that that
deacon's not holding that office, he gets three with him and takes it to the pastor. That
deacon's asked to stay home over the night, and then the pastor from--comes and
brings the congregation together, gives the grievance. And if the congregation votes

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page71
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

for the deacon to continue on, the deacon continues on. If he con--votes for the
deacon to be dismissed, they elect a new deacon that very night. See?

 337-281 Therefore, no one person has nothing to do in this; it's the majority of the
people. Yes, sir. If twenty votes for him, and twenty-one votes against him, he goes,
or vice versa. See? That is, it's the sovereignty of the local church, and then each one
of the members has a say-so in the church. Anything goes on wrong, then they can
come right around, and the only thing they have to do is to be before God that they
are absolutely see that nothing hinders the moving of the church.

 338-282 But the full and complete authority of the church is the pastor. Read
that in the Bible; see if that's not Bible order. That's exactly right. There's no one
above the elder. I have nothing to do with what Brother Neville does here. That's up
to you and Brother Neville. If Brother Neville wanted to preach Jehovah Witness
doctrine, that's up to him and you. See? If he wanted to preach anything he wanted to,
that's between you and him. That's all. If the congregation votes for him in there to
preach that, that's all right. That's up to him.

DO NOT SEND THE PASTOR

Hebrews                              by William Marrion Branham                     September 9, 1957

  302-78 In this Tabernacle here, when things go wrong and you men and you
women will run and go over somewhere else, or lay out till the little fuss or the stew
is over, there's something wrong with your experience. That's right. We have a
custom here. We have a--we have a order here; this church is based upon the
principles of the Bible. If there's somebody in here not doing right, and you think
they're not, you go to him and talk to him. If you can't reconcile him, then take some
brother with you, one or two more. If he won't be reconciled then, then tell it to the
church; and the church will dismiss him, have no more fellowship with him. And
Jesus said, "Whatever you loose on earth, I'll loose in heaven." That's the reason you
have so much troubles, because you don't follow the Bible principles. If somebody in
the church is causing a disturbance, or something going wrong, it's not your duty to
go talk about that man or that woman. It's your duty to go to that man or woman and
tell him his error. And if he won't hear you, take some other one with you. If he won't
hear that, then the church looses him. Jesus said, "What you loose on earth, I'll loose
in heaven. What you bind on earth, I'll bind in heaven." That's the power of the
church.

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page72
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



 302-81 Here not long ago, a good, preacher friend of mine, he had a boy. And that
boy had been going to church, his own church. He got to a place where he started
running around with a little old girl who smoked and drank and carried on. Preacher
said, "Of course, that's his business." A very bosom friend of mine, and a nice boy...
But he got all infatuated with the--some young woman. And she'd been married, had
some children; her husband was living. He was afraid they was going to have--that
boy would marry her. So the brother was all tore up, and he said to me, "Brother
Branham, I want you to go to this certain-certain boy of mine; I want you to talk to
him."

  302-82 I said, "Brother,..." I almost called his name. "You have a better way; don't
send me. If the boy's not living up, and the church has saw him doing wrong, then it's
the thing for the church to do this business. That's left with the church, and the
church goes over and tells him." So he took a brother, and went over and told him.
And he got back at the brother, let him know that he was attending to his own
business, for him to do the same. He took another brother, two more (two deacons),
went over and told the boy. He wouldn't listen to it. They told it to the church. And
he never come for several nights to be reconciled to the church after his sin was told
before the church, then the church loosed him. And about a month from then he was
stricken down with pneumonia, and the doctor said, "There's not a chance in the
world for him to live." Then he crawled back. God knows how to do it. We try to do
it in ourselves, "Oh, you ought to kick so-and-so out of church. You ought to do this,
that, or the other." Have you done your part as a church towards it? There you are.
That's the way to make them crawl back: turn them over to the Devil one time.

 303-86       What'd Paul say about this man down there was living with his
stepmother? They couldn't get him reconciled, said, "Turn him over to the Devil."
Watch what happens then in the next letter Paul wrote; this man had got straightened
out. Sure, God has a way of doing these things, if we'll just follow His rules. If
something goes wrong in the church, if it's amongst the congregation, each one of
you brothers that's on the deacon board... One of you deacons don't behave, the other
deacons come and have a meeting, try to reconcile the brother; tell him what he's
doing, or one of you members, whatever you are. Then it's to be brought before him.
If he won't do it, then come tell the pastor. Then he's loosed from the church, and
then let him be as a heathen and a Publican. Then watch the Lord go to work on him
(See?); that's when he comes back to himself; that's when he goes to crawling in. But
we try and do it ourself, you know, try to do the--everything the way we should do it.
Now, we never make a success.
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page73
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


KEEP YOUR EYES ON CHRIST
Hebrews                              by William Marrion Branham                        September 15, 1957

 315-152 And you deacon, and you others here, that run out on the street here, and
gawking your neck and looking at every one of them women, shame on you, and
calling yourself sons of God. I know that's scorching, but you'd--rather be scorched
than then burnt forever there. So if--if you do those things... Now, you can't help it if
a woman walks down the street, half dressed. You, if you're looking, you're bound to
see her, but you can turn your head. The Bible said, "Whosoever looketh upon a
woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery with her already in your heart."




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page74
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


PHOENIX TABERNACLE CHURCH ORDER
1241 East Baseline, Phoenix, AZ 85040-8005


Here is a list of guidelines regarding the code of conduct that the Pastor is
requesting we adhere to:

1. An attendance record will be kept. Your attendance at every service will be
   monitored very closely per the pastor's request.
2. Three unexcused absences will require the individual to speak to the pastor before
   he can serve again. Excessive tardiness (more than 5) will require the individual
   to speak to the pastor before he can serve again.
3. Deacons and ushers must give at least 24 hours notice for their absence or
   tardiness, unless an emergency arises. Your reason for your absence or tardiness
   will determine if it is excused or unexcused. Contact either the Church office, the
   Administrator, or the Pastor.
4. All deacons and ushers serving, must be at the Tabernacle a minimum of 15
   minutes before the doors open (i.e. no later than 6:30 PM on Wednesdays, 8:45
   AM Sunday morning, 2:15 PM Sunday PM). All deacons not serving and ushers
   on stand-by are required to be at the Tabernacle 30 minutes before service starts.
   A deacon should be at his post no later than 45 minutes before service starts. If
   you are not able to attend or will be late, call the office and / or the supervisor to
   inform them of your situation. You are expected to call because we are counting
   on you.
5. Deacons and ushers that are serving are required to have a good Christian hair cut,
   wear a white dress shirt, tie, slacks (dress pants not casual pants), dress shoes (no
   casual or tennis shoes) and a sport coat (preferably black, blue, brown, green). If
   you do not own a sport coat and do not have the money to buy one or two of them
   contact the Administrator. Always keep several breath mints with you for
   yourself and your colleagues during each service. Use them and share them when
   appropriate. It should go without saying, that breath mints are something you
   must always bring to service.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page75
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



6. Name tags will be required when serving and it should read:
                  Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                           your office
                           your name
    Everyone that comes to the Tabernacle will be greeted with a smile (a good smile
    shows teeth), handshake, and a verbal welcome in the vestibule area only. There
    should only be two individuals (deacon or ushers) greeting the people at all
    times in the vestibule. No more than the two deacons or ushers should be in
    the vestibule area once the doors are open. Once the individual enters the
    sanctuary there will be no verbal greetings inside the sanctuary. If someone
    greets you inside the sanctuary and wants to shake your hand, just smile, shake
    their hand and direct them to their seat. Do not verbally greet them in the
    sanctuary. No greeting, talking and shaking hands in the sanctuary.
7. All serving deacons and ushers need to get their assignments from the
   Administrator (or the Administrator's assistant) for each service.
8. A deacon and usher's conduct will be according to I Timothy 3:10-13:
         10 And let these also first be proved; then let them use the
         office of a deacon, being [found] blameless. 11 Even so [must
         their] wives [be] grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all
         things. 12 Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling
         their children and their own houses well. 13 For they that have
         used the office of a deacon well purchase to themselves a good
         degree, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.


The prescribe order is to enhance our service and worship to our Lord Jesus Christ.


BEFORE SERVICE:
1. The doors to the church are to be open to the public 30 minutes before the service
   starts unless extreme weather prevails or special circumstances approved by the
   pastor then we will open the doors as soon as the people get to the church.
2. Before the doors of the church open the deacons should gather together for a word
   of prayer.



Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page76
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007

3. Deacons need to have everything set-up before the doors open to the public.
   Deacons are to help set-up equipment, pick up trash in the sanctuary and grounds,
   put toilet paper, paper towels, etc. in the bathrooms.
4. Deacons for platform / altar area need to make sure that everything is set in order
   before service start. This includes arranging the chairs on the platform, washing
   and filling glasses with water for the pulpit, arrangement of microphones for
   specials and special activities, projector set-up, transparency machine, projector
   screen, anointing oil. Know the program by memory. The altar deacons are to
   assist with any activity involving the platform i.e.: baptisms, children songs, child
   presentations, altar calls, etc.
5. Make sure that all lights indoors and outside are operating before the doors open.

SEATING:
1. Seating those that attend our services is a very delicate issue. It requires insight of
   diversities of cultures and experience. Being bilingual is beneficial.
2. The maximum adult seating capacity per pew is 11.
3. The object of seating people is to fill the middle of a pew first and eliminate
   having individuals cross in front of others already seated. This can be especially
   embarrassing for the sisters passing in front of a man already seated.
4. Avoid seating men next to a lady who is not a relative or spouse and visa versa.
5. Use caution and wisdom when seating large individuals. Do not sit them where
   they have crossover many individuals or where many individuals have to cross
   through them to get to their seats.
6. All deacons must remember those seated in your area. If an individual temporary
   leaves their seat, make a note to yourself and by no means seat anyone else in that
   seat. If this requires you to carry a notepad to keep track, then please use one.
7. Platform seating is reserved for Elders, officers of the church, and exemplary
   youth.
8. In the first row, we want to sit clean cut men who are dressed properly.
9. The first pew on either side is reserved for the Garcia family. Bro Paul's family
   occupies the south pew and Bro Bernie's family sits in the north pew. The last two
   pews are for late comers.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page77
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



10. The back row should be reserved for mothers with young children (ages 0-5).
    Three reasons to sit mothers and their children in the back pews include:
          Minimize distraction
          Frequent bathroom visits
          Facilitate exiting of crying child.
    Remember that the goal is to minimize disruption of the Holy Ghost.


OVERFLOW SEATING:
1. Seating - the use of folding chairs is permitted beside the pews only after the pews
   are filled. Begin putting folding chairs on the north and south sides of the church
   first, then put them in the center, next place more chairs in the altar area if needed.
    Then fill the aisle in between the last pew of the church only after we have filled
   the sides, pulpit, altar area, and center aisle. Place chairs in the cry room if we
   know that the vestibule seating will not be enough. Start seating people in the cry
   room first then the vestibule. Once we have filled all these areas then instruct
   individuals to stand along the north and south walls.
2. Chairs, pulpit, pews & equipment must be put back to their original position after
   each service/activity unless advised otherwise by the supervisor, administrator, or
   pastor


TEMPERATURE CONTROL:
1. If the A/C units are to be used, they should be set at 71-73 degrees. Remember
   that while the worship is in progress the temperature rises and during the sermon
   the temperature drops. During the summer months (late June, July, August,
   September and part of October) the A/C units should be set at 74 degrees on
   Saturday night, between Sunday morning and Sunday Afternoon service so that
   the church is cool before service. The deacons in positions 3,4,5, & 6 should
   manage the thermostat under the leadership of the Pastor. If you see people
   fanning themselves, it is a good indicator that we need to cool the building a little
   more. We must learn how to regulate the thermostats so that most of the people
   are comfortable. Deacons assigned to this duty must be especially vigilant and in
   tune with the environment.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page78
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



ALTAR AREA:
1. About the time the minister is finishing his message, a deacon must be in position
   in the middle of the center aisle…If people start coming to the altar, we need the
   two altar deacons to instruct people to remain standing and direct them where to
   stand. In addition, we need the deacons on the north and south sides of the
   sanctuary closes to the altar to come to the altar and help the altar deacons. When
   needed, a female deacon (deaconess) should be assisting the sisters at the altar.

CRY-ROOM:
1. We will need a couple of deaconess helping us with the Cry-room such as Sis.
   Alvarado, Sis. O=Campo, Sis. Borunda and others. Sister Margarita O=Campo has
   been helping us monitor this area and the Ladies Restroom.
2. Adults must accompany all children that enter the Cry-room.
3. Deacons should not enter the Cry-room but contact the deaconess if problems
   arise.

QUESTIONS, PROBLEMS, CONCERNS:
1. All disputes should be sent to the supervisor & administrator.
2. Disruptive individuals will need to be exhorted outside of the sanctuary and
   spoken to about their behavior. Consult a supervisor about the situation before
   you take matters in your own hands. A disruptive person is one who is
   interrupting the minister and others from hearing the service.
3. A deacon must always use the Athree strikes= you=re out@ rule when correcting
   someone in church: 1) Warn them with a smile on you face 2) warn them again
   nicely 3) Talk to the supervisor about the issue so that he may take care of the
   problem.
4. Step 3 will always be handled by the supervisor. He will instruct you in what to
   do.


RESTROOMS:
1. We need to be very watchful and maintain church order especially when children
   and teenagers go to the restroom and are not accompanied by an adult. A deacon
   should always be in the Men=s restroom if an adult is not present with children
   and teenagers. If an incident occurs in the Ladies restroom, inform the deaconess
Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page79
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



    on duty or get a mature lady of the church to go in there. Deacons are not
    permitted in the Ladies restroom. The deaconess will monitor the Cry-Room and
    the Ladies= restroom.

DURING THE SERVICE:
1. All traffic needs to come to a stop during a prayer and the reading of the scripture
   in reverence to God=s Word.
2. During the service a deacon should make frequent visits to the Toddler's room.
3. No loitering or fellowshipping in the parking lot before and during the service.
4. The north and south doors by the pulpit area are not to be used during the service
   except for the pastor, administrator, and in special circumstances. Anyone trying
   to use these doors should de instructed to go around.

CLOSING THE CHURCH:
1. Make sure the double doors are closed once the last person is dismissed from the
   sanctuary. No one other than the Pastor is permitted back into the sanctuary once
   the service is dismissed. Musician practice and special song practice after the
   service will need the Pastor=s approval beforehand.
2. When the service has dismissed and there are people at the altar, deacons must be
   present to intercede to keep order in the House of the Lord. The number of
   deacons needed will depend on the number of persons at the altar and the amount
   of traffic in the sanctuary.
3. After each service the sanctuary is closed to individuals that want to loiter, talk, or
   use it as a means to get to the back office. Once the church has been dismissed no
   one should be inside the sanctuary unless they need prayer or want to pray at the
   altar. Individuals that worked during the service are permitted to be in the
   sanctuary. Absolutely no talking in permitted in the sanctuary once the service
   is dismissed.
4. Make sure all lights have been turned off and all exterior doors to the church are
   locked before you leave. The doors of the church should never be opened unless
   a deacon is present and/or the pastor has given special permission. Let the
   supervisor or administrator know of any unusual activity.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page80
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



COURTYARD / PARKING LOT:
1. Our deacons are to maintain order outside in the courtyard area at all times before,
   during, and after services. Children should not be running or playing in the
   courtyard.
2. We need to protect our people from danger before, during and after service. It is
   extremely important that we have deacons on guard in the parking lot once service
   has dismissed. To monitor who is leaving and coming into the parking lot before
   and after service. If a deacon sees an individual or a group coming on church
   property who did not attend our services, the deacon should kindly approach
   them and find out why they are there after service. You should watch them closely
   until they leave the church grounds. Let the supervisor or administrator know
   ASAP. A full report must be filled out and given to the supervisor and the
   administrator regarding any suspicious activity or proselyting especially during
   the convention.
3. A deacon must be sober & vigilant at all times especially when people are
   fellowshipping after service. Watch for the traffic coming into the church from
   Baseline road, children playing, parking lot, suspicious activities, etc.
4. No one is permitted to sell or give literature / material away on the church ground
   much less set-up a table especially during the convention unless the Pastor or
   Administrator is aware and the office has been notified. The Pastor or
   Administrator should be notified of such activity. The same thing holds true for
   individuals videoing our services. The deacon must advise them of our policy.
   There is a letter to give to these individuals that are videoing during our services
   to which you can obtain from the office to give them.
5. No one is to be smoking, drinking and etc. on the church ground at any time.
   Special enforcement is imperative during funerals, fund raisers, weddings.
   Visitors must be made aware of our church policy while on the church property.


VISITORS / HOSPITALITY:
  1. If a visitor is in our midst and is unaware of church order, we must be
     forbearing, but only to the point that we do not compromise on the Word of
     God. Allow the supervisor or the administrator to handle any situation
     involving visitors.
    2. It is the duty of the deacons to befriend our visitors. Be courteous, introduce
       yourself, find out if they liked the service. Where did they hear about us?

Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page81
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007



       Would they like to speak to a minister or like a minister to visit them, etc.?
    3. Deacons should be on the look-out for families that live far from the church
       who do not have a place to go since they live far from their homes and will not
       be able to go home in between Sunday AM and PM service. Invite them to
       your house or find out where they are going out to eat and join them to have
       fellowship.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page82
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                            2007


GREEK LEXICON -- STRONG'S NUMBER.
WEBSTER DICTIONARY
SOBER
         adj so-ber-er; so-ber-est 1 : temperate in the use of liquor 2 : not drunk
         3 : serious or grave in mood or disposition 4 : having a quiet tone or
         color syn solemn, earnest, staid, sedate C so-\ber-ly adv C so-ber-ness
         8 1995 Zane Publishing, Inc. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary 8 1994 by Merriam-Webster, Incorporated



3525 NEPHO {nay'-fo} of uncertain affinity;-- be sober -- watch. 1) to be sober,
to be calm and collected in spirit; to be temperate, dispassionate, circumspect

4993 SOPHRONEO {so-fron-eh'-o} from 4998; -- be in right mind -- be sober
  -- be sober minded -- soberly 1) to be of sound mind 1a) to be in one's right mind
 1b) to exercise self control; to put a moderate estimate upon one's self, think of one's
 self soberly; to curb one's passions.

4994 SOPHRONIZO {so-fron-id'-zo} from 4998; -- teach to be sober (1) 1)
restore one to his senses; to moderate, control, curb, disciple; to hold one to his duty;
to admonish, to exhort earnestly

4998 SOPHRON {so'-frone} from the base of 4982 and 5424; -- sober --
temperate -- discreet 1a) of a sound mind, sane, in one's senses 1b) curbing one's
desires and impulses, self controlled, temperate.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page83
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                            2007


DEACON
         [ME dekene, fr. OE dÈacon, fr. LL diaconus, fr. Gk diakonos, lit.,
         servant] : a subordinate officer in a Christian church.
         8 1995 Zane Publishing, Inc. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary 8 1994 by Merriam-Webster, Incorporated



1247 DIAKONEO {dee-ak-on-eh'-o} from 1249; -- minister unto -- serve --
minister I) to be a servant, attendant, domestic,; to serve, wait upon. 1) to minister
to one; render ministering offices to, to be served, ministered unto. 2) to wait at a
table and offer food and drink to the guests, used of women preparing food 3) to
minister, i.e. supply food and necessities of life; to relieve one's necessities (e.g. by
collecting alms), to provide take care of, distribute, the things necessary to sustain
life; to take care of the poor and the sick, who administer the office of a deacon; in
Christian churches to serve as deacons. 4) to minister, i.e. to attend to anything, that
may serve another's interests

 1248 DIAKONIA               {dee-ak-on-ee'-ah} from 1249; -- ministry --
ministration -- ministering 1) service, ministering 2) of those who by the command
of God proclaim and promote religion among men 2a) of the office of Moses 2b) of
the office of the apostles and its administration 2c) of the office of prophets,
evangelists, elders etc. 3) the ministration of those who render to others the offices
of Christian affection especially those who help meet need by either collecting or
distributing of charities 4) the office of the deacon in the church 5) the service of
those who prepare and present food

 1249 DIAKONOS {dee-ak'-on-os} probably from an obsolete diako (to run
on errands, compare 1377); -- minister -- servant -- deacon I) one who executes the
commands of another, especially of a master; a servant, attendant, minister 1) the
servant of a king 2) a deacon, one who, by virtue of the office assigned to him by the
church, cares for the poor and has charge of and distributes the money collected for
their use 3) a waiter, one who serves food and drink




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page84
   Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


SEVEN  APPOINTED     MEN                                                        AS            DEACONS
ACCORDING TO ACTS 6:
 3527 NIKANOR {nik-an'-ore} probably from 3528; -- Nicanor 1) Nicanor
meaning "conqueror" was one of the first seven deacons. Acts 6:5.

 3532 NIKOLAOS {nik-ol'-ah-os} from 3534 and 2994; -- Nicolas. 1)
Nicolas meaning "victor of the people", was a native of Antioch and a proselyte to
the Jewish faith. When the church was still confined to Jerusalem, he became a
convert; and being a man of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and of wisdom, he
was chosen by the whole multitude of the disciples to be one of the seven deacon,
and was ordained by the apostles. There is no reason except the similarity of the
name for identifying Nicolas with the sect of the Nicolaitans which our Lord
denounces, for the traditions on the subject are of no value.

 3937 PARMENAS {par-men-as'} probably by contraction for Parmenides (a
derivative of a compound of 3844 and 3306); -- Parmenas 1) Parmenas meaning
"abiding": was one of the seven deacons. Acts 6:5. There is a tradition that he
suffered martyrdom at Philippi in the reign of Trajan.

 5376 PHILIPPOS {fil'-ip-pos} from 5384 and 2462;-- Philip (the apostle) --
Philip (the evangelist) 1) Philip meaning "lover of horses" was a resident of
Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter, John 1:44, and was among the Galilean
peasants of that district who flocked to hear the preaching of John the Baptist. Aside
from the what is written in the scriptures, little is known of him. Tradition states that
he preached in Phrygia, and died at Hierapolis. 2) Philip the evangelist was one of the
seven deacons appointed in the church. Acts 6. He is mentioned again in Acts 8 and
21. Tradition places the scene of his death at Hierapolis in Phrygia. According to
another, he died bishop of Tralles. The house in which he and his daughters had lived
was pointed out to travellers in the time of Jerome.

 4402 PROCHOROS {prokh'-or-os} from 4253 and 5525;-- Prochorus 1)
Prochorus meaning "leader of the chorus", was one of the seven deacons chosen by
the church. Acts 6:5.




Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                     strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                      Page85
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                                    2007




      4736 STEPHANOS {stef'-an-os} -- Stephen 1) Stephen meaning "crowned"
     was the first Christian martyr, and was chief among the seven men appointed to
     rectify the complaints made by the Hellenistic Jews against the Hebrews in the
     early church at Jerusalem. Act 6, 7. The importance of Stephen's career may be
     summed briefly up under three heads: 1. He was the first great Christian ecclesiastic,
     "the Archdeacon", as he is called in the Greek Orthadox Church. 2. He is the first
     martyr -- protomartyr. To him the name "martyr" is first applied. Acts 22:20. 3. He is
     the forerunner of Paul. He was the anticipator, as, had he lived, he would have been
     the propagator, of a new phase of Christianity of which Paul became the main
     support.

     5096 TIMON {tee'-mone} from 5092; -- Timon 1) Timon meaning "honourable"
     was one of the seven deacons. Acts 6:1-6. He was a Hellenist. (A.D. 34).

     DEACONESS
              n : a woman chosen to assist in the church ministry
              8 1995 Zane Publishing, Inc. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary 8 1994 by Merriam-Webster, Incorporated



      5402 PHOIBE {foy'-bay} feminine of phoibos (bright, probably akin to the
     base of 5457); -- Phebe 1) Phoebe meaning "radiant" was the first and one of the
     most important of the Christians in the list in Rom. 16. (A.D. 55). She was a
     deaconess in the church at Rome. The Greek uses the word "diakonos" which is
     elsewhere translated "deacon", but here in the AV is translated "servant".

     ELDER
      4245 PRESBUTEROS {pres-boo'-ter-os} comparative of presbus (elderly);
     presbus AV -- elder (64) -- old man (1) -- eldest (1) -- elder woman (1) [67] 1)
     elder, of age, 1a) the elder of two people 1b) advanced in life, an elder, a senior;
     forefathers; received from the fathers 2) a term of rank or office 2a) among the
     Jews; members of the great council or Sanhedrin (because in early times the rulers of
     the people, judges, etc., were selected from elderly men); of those who in separate
     cities managed public affairs and administered justice 2b) among the Christians,
     those who presided over the assemblies (or churches) The NT uses the term bishop,
     elders, and presbyters interchangeably 2c) the twenty four members of the heavenly
     Sanhedrin or court seated on thrones around the throne of God

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                                Page86
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




                               The Man in the Arena
     “It is not the critic who counts; not the man who
     points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the
     doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit
     belongs to the man who is actually in the arena,
     whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood;
     who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short
     again and again, because there is no effort without
     error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to
     do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great
     devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause;
     who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high
     achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least
     fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never
     be with those cold and timid souls who neither know
     victory nor defeat.”

                                                            “The Man in the Arena:” Citizenship in a Republic

                   President Theodore Roosevelt speech at the Sorbonne, Paris, France, April 23, 1910




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page87
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007



     CHURCH ORDER                                                          JEFF IN COD THURSDAY 63-
     1226

     1 ` You'll scratch it. Hit the... [Someone says, "Let me turn it."--Ed.] Okay. And
     don't turn them on yet, so it just... Turn it on. And we'll... And you be ready to turn
     them off. And I'll motion my head to you, like that. See? See? I'll motion my head to
     you. You... All right, turn it, quick. [Brother Billy Paul says, "Where you want me,
     daddy?" Someone says, "He said, 'Turn it on.'"]
     Brethren, we called this meeting together here tonight for the purpose of knowing
     how that to operate the Church of the living God, which, we believe to be a part of
     this Church.
     2 I want to, first thing, I want to say that in my travels around the world, so far as I
     know, this is one of the most spiritual places where you feel the Spirit of God more
     than any other place I know. I had two other places in mind that used to be, but so far
     we--we don't seem to see those places; one of them has went into the organization,
     and the other has--has kind of fallen.
     3 So I was called yesterday and was--was told me that you all wanted a meeting to
     ask me these questions concerning your duties in this church, and I... that's what I'm
     here for tonight, is... and to--to set the church, or to give to you the things that I think
     that--that is what's substantial to make this church to continue on.
     4     Brethren, I'm sure that you do realize that, as I've made this remark about this
     being a spiritual place. It isn't the biggest place in the world, and it isn't what we have
     the most singing, the most screaming, and the most hollering, or the most speaking in
     tongues, and things, that isn't it, but it's the quality of the Spirit that operates here in
     this tabernacle. And, so far, I want to commend and thank Brother Neville, and--and
     you brethren here, trustees, and deacons, and Sunday school superintendent, and all,
     for--for what you have done in helping keeping this this way. It's been a long prayer
     of mine, and a desire since a boy, to see the church put in order and kept in order.
     5 Now, when we dedicated the church, I told you, "A little later I had something
     to talk to you about," how to set this thing in order, the way it should be run. And you
     started off... after leaving here, we had ministers and so forth. But now, Brother
     Neville being just young among us, come among us, I thought it'd be better for
     Brother Neville to get better established in the Faith before I presented such things as
     I'm about to do now. But now, after I find out that he is getting well established in the
     Faith, and understands what the Doctrine is, and has played the part of a faithful
     witness to Christ and holding for what we believe to be the Truth, I think it's the hour
     now, would be a good time, to approach him in the... and among you elders and
     things here of the church, that you would take these orders and remember them,

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page88
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     they're the best of my knowledge before God. And then I'm looking to you to carry
     these things out the way that I'm saying them, because somebody has to be a head
     around here. You have to have...
     6      Now, I'm not trying to usurp authority or something like that, but, you see, a
     man or anything with two heads to it, it--it doesn't know how to go. God never did
     have two heads to His Church, He never did, it's one head. He always dealt in every
     generation as we've studied through the Scriptures, there's always one individual that
     He deals with. Because you get two man, you got two opinions. It's got to come to
     one final absolute, and my absolute is the Word, the Bible. And as a pastor here of
     the church, my absolute is the Word, and I want... I know you are brothers, you kind
     of look to me to be your absolute to what... as long as I follow God as Paul said in the
     Scripture, "You follow me, as I follow Christ."
     7 And then I'd expect you brethren, at any time that you see me to get away from
     this Scripture, to come to me privately and tell me where I'm wrong. I don't care if
     you're one of the trustees or the... or if you're the janitor, whoever you are, you're
     duty bound to me, as a brother in Christ, to tell me when I'm wrong scripturally. If
     there's a question, let's set down and solve it out, together.
     8 And that's why you come, I suppose, to me tonight, brought me in here, is
     because that there's questions here that seems to be questioning you in your mind for
     the things I have--have here. Now remember, brethren, I don't know... there's no
     names signed to any of these tickets, but... and they're wrote, and I can't... don't know
     who wrote them, but they're questions that's on your mind, and I'm here to answer
     them the best of my knowledge.
     9     And remember, God is looking to me to see that I stay in the Word. And I'm
     looking to you to see that you carry out the Word, see, see, in this church. And keep
     it spiritual, for, remember, all the forces of--of the dark kingdom of Satan will be
     turned against you as you begin to grow in the Lord. And you must be soldiers, not
     just fresh recruits. You're aged soldiers now, and been trained to fight. And Satan
     will come among you and cause you to dispute with one another if he can. Turn him
     down just immediately; you're brethren; and it's the enemy. And we're here to hold a
     standard in this evening Light time, that, when the world is darkened and the whole
     church kingdom is going into the Council of Churches. And pretty soon they'll try to
     tack a sign on this door here, "Closed!" And then we're going to have to meet other
     places, 'cause they'll certainly close these churches one of these days if we don't take
     the mark of the beast. And we're depending on staying true to God till death sets us
     free, and that's what we intend to do.
     10      Now straight to the... And I would ask, that if ever a time that any of these
     things come into question, that this tape may be played before the members of this

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page89
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     church, see, at your meetings, or prior the meeting, just before the meeting start. Turn
     this tape on and play it! And may the congregation here understand that these man
     are duty bound to God, as their oath in this church, to help hold these principles. You
     may disagree with them; and if I let you run it, then I'll disagree with you. We've got
     to have some source somewhere where there's got to be an ultimate. And the best that
     I know, I'm giving it under the Holy Spirit, letting Him be my ultimate. And let this
     tape be your ultimate on these questions.
     10a Now, the first one is:
     How shall the church act towards calls for financial help of... for food and clothing?
     What--what act, what--what should the church do?
     11 Now we realize that the church is responsible for its own, for our members here
     of the church, we are totally responsible as far as we have needs to supply them with.
     We are responsible for our own, that's, steady, constant members of the tabernacle
     that come here and worship with us. We are duty bound to them, as our brothers and
     sisters who have proven to be our members of this gathering.
     12 Now, we realize that there is millions tonight without food, without clothing,
     and we would love to be able to help the whole group of them, to do everything we
     could; but financially we cannot do that, we can't support all the world. But we are
     duty bound to our own. And I think, in that, and then if we have anything left over
     that you would want to contribute to people who are not members here of this church,
     something that you'd want to give to them, it should be met between the board of the
     deacons.
     13 The deacons is the one that--that has to meet this opposition, or this problem,
     rather; because that in the Bible when the dispute come up about food and clothing,
     and so forth, in the Book of Acts, they called the apostles in about it, and they said,
     "Go look out for yourself seven man of honest report and full of the Holy Ghost that
     they might attend to these things, because we will give ourself continually to the
     Word of God and in prayer."
     14 And it isn't the pastor's duty to look out to the... for the food and so forth. That's
     supposed to be by the deacons. It isn't the trustees, it is the deacons office to do this.
     And then this should be... Remember in the Bible, they was contributing to their own,
     the Greeks and the--and the Jewish, where the argument come up that one was
     getting a little more than the other, but it was people who had sold all their goods and
     had give it into the church for its support, and then to--to be divided out among them
     equally. And there was a little dispute come up, and there's where we got our first
     deacons. And that's one of their duties, is to do that.
     15 I think that, as our own, as our own people, we should take care of them. And
     it should be turned in, any complaint, to the chairman of the deacon board, and then it

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page90
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     should be met by the deacon board and see what they're able to do about it. And all of
     those things which is clothing, and food, and financial help, or whatever it is, should
     come through the deacons. Then the deacons, when they decide that they are--that
     they are... what they're going to do about it, then it should be presented then unto the-
     -the treasurer, to see if the treasurer is able at this time to pay this certain amount of
     finance, or--or buy these clothing, or whatever it is to that. But the--the deacon board
     should meet on that, and it doesn't go to the trustees or to the pastor. It's a deacons'
     thing, altogether.
     15a Now, then, question number two.
     Is it sufficient to say openly from the pulpit that tongues and interpretations should be
     done in a meeting before the service?
     That's the second question on this slip of paper that I have here, which is a little card.
     16 Now, this would be pertaining to the pastor here, see. Because he--he, after all,
     over the spiritual part, he's the head of that. Deacons are policemen in the church, to
     keep order and to take care of these things, and feeding the poor, and so forth. The
     trustees are over the finance and the building, and that's what they are to look after.
     But the pastor is over the--the supervising of the spiritual part, and this would go to
     you, Brother Neville.
     17 Now, there... sometime ago when the order was set, the church. I do believe in
     speaking in tongues, and interpretation, and all the fine spiritual gifts that's ordained
     of God to be in the church. But we are living in a day just like it was in the Bible
     time, where the churches... Now, you notice Paul, he founded the church at Ephesus,
     the Ephesian church, which was a well-established church. Did you notice? We
     believe that Paul, and did say so himself, that he spoke with many tongues, and we
     know that he had gifts of tongues. Not ones that he had learned, but those who were
     spiritually given to him, because how he speaks it in Corinthians there. And to save
     time, I'm not just turning in the Bible and reading it for you, because it would make
     our--our stay here too long tonight, as I don't have too much time. And now... but just
     so that you could openly see.
     18 Now, Paul never one time had to speak to the Ephesian church or to the Roman
     church, or any of those other churches, about their spiritual gifts, about how to put
     them in order. But he did have to speak to the Corinthians continually about it,
     because they made it an issue all the time. And Paul said, when he come among them,
     if they found out if one had a tongue and one had a psalm, and he thanked the Lord
     for all their fine gifts and things like that. And if you'll notice in the first chapter or
     two of Corinthians, Paul was telling them, positionally, what they were in Christ,
     how he... they were positionally in Christ.
     19 Then after he told them, then like a father he begin to let the whip down on

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page91
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     them, and say, "I hear there's contentions among you, and I hear that you get drunk at
     the Lord's table." He didn't unchristianize them; and don't you brethren do that,
     unchristianize them, but it's the way they're behaving themselves in the house of God.
     That's where it's at.
     20 Now, I would say this, that as Paul of old said, that, "When you come together,
     if one speaks, let another one interpret. If there be no interpreter, then hold your
     peace. But if there be an interpreter..."
     21 Now, I've watched the church here, and I've seen you grow up, and I've seen
     many spiritual gifts operating among you. Frankly, one I had to come to Brother
     Neville about with a Word from the Lord, to correct him on something that he was
     doing.
     22 And if I... if the Lord has... The Holy Ghost has made me an overseer of the
     Flock, then it's my duty to tell you the Truth. And I'm very grateful to Brother
     Neville, he heeded to the Truth. I can only say It as He tells me.
     23 Now, on this, as I have noticed your church growing, and noticed it. And in the
     church, here's the way we had it first, and this is the way we--we want it again.
     24 Now, if you don't watch, when babies... The first thing a baby does is try to talk
     when he can't talk. See? He makes a lot of bubble, and noise, and--and so forth, but
     he thinks he's just... he can out-talk the preacher at that time. Well, we find that not
     only in the natural life, but we find that in the spiritual life also. It's a little one. And
     if you try to correct that baby and spank him a little bit because he's "gooing" and
     trying to talk, you'll ruin the child. See, and you'll hurt him. And it's best to let that
     baby grow a little while until he actually can speak his words right, and then tell him
     when. "Not when papa's talking or when mama's talking." But when it's appropriate
     time, let him have his say. Do you understand me? Now, let him talk when his time
     comes to talk.
     25      Now, if I've ever had anything that's been a thorn in my flesh, out in the
     meeting, it's someone to rise up when I'm speaking and then give a message in
     tongues and break the Spirit. I just come out of a meeting in New York and different
     places to where ministers let that go on, time after time, and it's nothing but--but a
     confusion. See, when God is dealing in one line of thought, He... it would be--it
     would... He would be defeating His Own purpose, if He's trying to get a line of
     thought to you, to the congregation, to make an altar call and something butt in.
     26 For instance, like this. We're setting at the table, talking, and we're talking about
     the Lord. And junior runs in to the table, real quick, takes all the attention away from
     what we're doing, and he hollers, scream out, "Dad! Mom! My! My! I just hit a home
     run down at the team! And we done all this, that, and the other!" And when we were
     right on a real right-down sacred subject. Now, him hitting a home run, that's all right

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page92
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     at the baseball game, that's all right. But he's out of order when he breaks in on the
     message that we're talking about. Let him wait till his time comes and then tell us
     what he did at the baseball game.
     27 Now, that's just the same thing we find with gifts today. That's the reason God
     cannot trust too many spiritual gifts with people, they don't know how to control
     them. That's what's the matter today, the reason we don't have no more than we do.
     28 Then we do find there's a lot of impersonation of spiritual gifts. But I don't
     believe that's so here in our church. I'm thankful for that. I don't believe it's an
     impersonation at all. I believe we have genuine gifts, but we must know how to
     control those gifts.
     29 And then when you go to doing something good... Just like you was working
     for a boss and you started out on the first of your job and you're willing to take
     orders, then the boss has confidence in you and he will keep raising you up to a
     higher office all the time.
     30 Now, I believe that time has struck the Branham Tabernacle, to know what... to
     take the gifts that God gives us, that God can trust us with something even greater
     than what we have got. But we cannot go along... and you see a man that's always
     have to be telling him and everything. And remember, "The spirit of the prophets is
     subject to the prophet," says the Scripture. When you see a man that you have to
     correct, or a woman, and that person gets out of order, and then you're telling him the
     Scriptural Truth, then it shows that the spirit that's on them isn't of God. Because the
     Bible said, "The spirit of the prophets," or, "prophesying," that's, testifying,
     preaching, speaking in tongues, or whatever it is, 'cause tongues interpreted is
     prophecy. So it's subject to the prophet, and the Word is the prophet. So we--we see
     that it's out of order for a man or a woman to jump up and give a message, no matter
     how much they want to do it, while the preacher is in the pulpit.
     31 Now I suggest this for the Branham Tabernacle, that being that our--our gifts
     that we find... And we have some very fine gifted people here. Now, each one of
     those gifts are a ministry of their own. They are gifts, just like preaching is a gift, like
     healing is a gift, like other things are gifts, these are gifts, they are ministries of their
     own. And each man is commanded to wait on his own ministry.
     32 Therefore let the Branham Tabernacle be operated like this, and in the day,
     especially this day when we've had so much, (I don't want to say this, but) so much
     make-belief. We don't want make-belief. No man, no honest person wants to have a
     make-belief. We... If we can't have the real, let's not have any at all, let's wait till we
     do get the real. Now, I believe you--you men would agree with that. We don't want
     nothing make-belief. Brethren, we can't start on make-belief something and leaving
     this world. We got to have what's real, and what's genuine. If we haven't got it, let's

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page93
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     wait till we do get it, and then say something about it. See?
     33      Now, I would say, let all these men and women who speak in tongues, and
     prophesy, and give messages... And I'm--I'm believing with you men that they are
     genuine. Now, the Bible has said, "Prove all things, and hold fast to that what's
     good." "For with stammering lips and other tongues will I speak to this people, this is
     the rest that I said that they should enter into," and over in the Book of Isaiah.
     34 Now, I would suggest this so that the sanctuary will only be ministered by one
     gift at a time, for it brings us straight back in order again of what I'm trying to say: if
     one's speaking, let the spirit of the prophets be subject to the prophet. Do you
     understand? Now, let those who have a ministry to the Body of Christ... And now It's
     being said, now let it be done. Let those who have a ministry to the Body of Christ
     wait on their ministry, because it is a ministry from Christ to the church. But you
     can't all minister the same time, there's got to be one at a time.
     35 The Branham Tabernacle shall be like this. Let those who speak with tongues,
     and those who interpret tongues, and those have prophecy that's to be given to the
     church, let them come among themselves early in the... before the meeting starts, let
     them gather in an appointed room, and wait on the ministry of the Lord.
     36 As the pastor has to do himself before he comes into the audience; he must take
     the Bible, study in the quietness of his room, in the Spirit, and be anointed to come
     out before the audience to speak. If he doesn't, he's going to be confused when he
     gets out there. (Let each man and each woman, with a spiritual gift, come before the
     Lord.) And
     being that the pastor has a single ministry, he is a prophet; the English word, a
     preacher, means "a prophet," that's a forth-teller of the Word.
     37 Let those who have ministries that has to be part of someone else, like one to
     speak with tongues and another to interpret, they wait together on their ministry.
     They cannot stay in a private study and speak in tongues and then come tell the other
     one what he said, because he'd have both tongues and interpretation. See? Now, if he
     has that, very well, we want to receive it like that. And we want the church to benefit
     by these gifts that's in our church. God sent them to us, and it's... we want our church
     to benefit by these spiritual gifts. So let the man who speaks with tongues, and the
     one who interprets, and the one who prophesies, let them come together before the--
     the church ever meets. Let them meet in a room to themselves, waiting on the
     ministry of the Lord to the church. Is it understood?
     38 And then, like this, if Brother Neville say... Well, now let me... Pardon, let me
     say this. If Brother Collins speaks with tongues and Brother Hickerson gives the
     interpretation, then they have a ministry together for the church. Now, that isn't the
     ministry of Brother Neville; that's your ministry to the church. I'm giving this as

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page94
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     example. Then you brethren should be just as interested in getting your ministry in
     the place in the house of God as the pastor is interested in getting his, because it's just
     essential that you do it. But you can't do it in the privacy of your own room, if you
     speak and you interpret, you've got to come together. Now, come together in the
     church, off in a room to yourself, because you have a private ministry. It's not an
     openly ministry, it's one that's to help the church. See? It's something to help the
     church, but it isn't to be done in the main congregation, only the way I'm going to tell
     you it is to be done. See? Then, whatever Brother Collins speaks, and Brother
     Hickerson gives the interpretation, as example, then let Brother somebody write this
     down, what it is. And then if it's coming...
     39 Now, we all know that the Lord is coming, we're aware of that. And if Brother
     Neville got up each night and said, "Behold, the Lord is coming! Behold, the Lord is
     coming!" that would be all right, see. But he's saying that (the pastor) at the platform,
     for he's got the Word for that. And if he be a pastor, prophet to the church... or a
     pastor, rather, he's to study the Word of the Lord and tell you what's written in the
     Word of the Lord about the coming of the Lord, and you're warned by That. A
     ministry otherwise (to the church) which he wouldn't have any connection with, is
     tongues, interpretation of tongues (which is prophecy), or a prophet speaking, that's
     something that's not written in the Word. What's written in the Word, he's to bring it;
     but what's not written in the Word, is what you're to tell him. Like, for instance, "Tell
     Brother Wheeler, THUS SAITH THE LORD, 'Tomorrow, in his sand pit, not to go
     to it, because there'll be a truck turn over,'" or something like that, and it's got to be
     done. And you've spoke it and he's interpreted it, and then lay that on the platform
     after your ministry is finished. The...?... night, after the church... the hymn, and start
     singing and so forth; if your ministry is finished then, let them come forth with what
     prophecy has been given. 40 And I do not think that we have... Or if you do, put
     this in there. When these people meet together, let them who have wisdom first come.
     Because, you see, if one speaks in tongues and gives an interpretation according to
     Scripture, that cannot be received unless it be witnessed by two or three people, two
     or three more witnesses, see, has to witness to that, that they believe it to be the Word
     of the Lord. Because... And sometimes in these minor ministries, just like in any
     other ministry, you get spirits that's wrong; see, they'll fly in there. And we don't
     want that. No. We want these ministries ready to be exposed if they're to be exposed,
     because anything of God can... you don't worry about exposing it, it'll--it'll stand the
     test if it's of God.
     41 Just like the pastor, if somebody challenges him on the Word, he don't have to
     back up about it, he knows just exactly what he's talking to, "Come on up here." See?
     And same as these other ministries, got to be the same way.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page95
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     42      Now, if--if one speaks in tongues and gives a message... Now, some people
     speak in tongues when they're just "edifying themselves," the Bible said, they're just
     have a good time. They'll speak in tongues, they feel. And they do speak in tongues,
     they actually speak with tongues, and it's the Spirit doing it. But if it's setting out
     there in the audience, speaking in tongues, just edifying themselves, then it isn't any
     profitable thing for the church; the man's edifying himself, or the woman, or
     whoever's doing it. See?
     43 To speak in tongues is a gift of God to edification, as Paul says in the Scripture,
     that it's to edify the church. So it had to be some direct message from God to the
     church, outside of what's wrote here in the Bible. See? It's something that...
     44      If you could ask me, "Brother Branham, how must I be baptized?" I can tell
     you right quick. You don't have to speak in tongues and tell me that, it's wrote right
     here in the Bible what to do about that. See? I don't have to... you don't have to ask
     no questions on that and have somebody speak in tongues and tell you. See, that's
     already written.
     45 But if you say, "Brother Branham, what must I do, I've got a decision here I've
     got to make whether I should take this church or go to another church," or something
     like that. "Or should I do this, that?" Now, that'd have to come from God. See, God
     has to
     tell us that. But that would have to come through another ministry, 'cause the Word
     don't say "Let Orman Neville leave Branham Tabernacle and go to the Fort Wayne
     Gospel Tabernacle." See, it don't say that in the Word here, see, so that's what these
     gifts are for.
     46      Like a person coming up here and say, "Do you believe in Divine healing?"
     We preach that, we believe it, we believe in anointing, the oil.
     47 But here's some man says he "Can't get through, what's the matter?" Then it
     takes God, through tongues, interpretation, through prophecy, or some way to go
     down in that man's life and pull out that thing that he's done, and tell him about it.
     That's a ministry that doesn't belong to the pastor, it belongs to these ministering
     gifts, but they're not to be done out there in the audience. See?
     48        Now, Paul never one time had to tell those--tell those Ephesian church
     anything about that, they were in order, the Roman church, or none of those other
     churches; only the Corinthian church, and they never could get themself... Now, Paul
     believed in speaking in tongues. He had speaking in tongues in the Ephesian church,
     the same as he did in the Corinthian church, see, but he could speak to the Ephesians
     greater things than what just speaking in tongues, interpreting of tongues.
     49 Now, then if someone writes a message that's been given in tongues or given in
     prophecy, and lay it up on the platform, it must be read by the pastor before the

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page96
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     service starts, of "THUS SAITH THE LORD" from these people who spoke and
     interpreted. And if that comes to pass exactly the way the interpretation said, we'd
     raise our hands and give thanks to God for His Spirit among us. If it doesn't come to
     pass, then don't do it any more till that evil spirit's out of you. God don't lie, He's
     always truth.
     50 Then, you see, you're old enough now to act like men, not children ("goo, goo,
     goo"), you got to have some meaning to something.
     51       Let the church now, as it's coming in order, come to this order. If one
     prophesies... If one come among you, unlearned, and you speak in tongues, you'll be
     a Barbarian to him, he don't know what you're talking about. See? And really in this
     day where there's been so much confusion about it, it causes a stumbling block. But
     let one speak in tongues, and another interpret and give the message, and let it be read
     off right here at the platform, of what's going to take place, and then let it happen,
     you see what happens. Tell them that "Tomorrow at a certain time, or next week at a
     certain time, it's going to be a certain thing," and then let the unbeliever setting there
     listen to that and see it's foretold before it happens. Then they'll know what kind of
     spirit's among you, it'll be God's Spirit. That's what Paul said, "Then if one can
     prophesy and reveal the
     secret things, won't the whole congregation fall down, or the unbeliever, and say,
     'God is in the midst of you'?" See? Because it cannot be...
     52      But now we don't want... "When we was a child," Paul said, "I acted like a
     child," he told the Corinthians there, "I spoke like a child." He had a child mind. "But
     when I become an adult, I put childish things away."
     53 Now, I'm telling you all, see. Now, a few years ago, you were children with
     these gifts, playing back and forth. But you've been to a long school now, it's time to
     be men, not use these just to play with. These gifts are sacred, they're of God, and
     you don't play with them. Let's let God use them. That's what your ministry wants to
     be. That's the way to put the Branham Tabernacle into service. And--and if this is
     questioned, anytime, let this tape stand as a witness that that's the way it's to be done
     in the Branham Tabernacle.
     54 If there would be a stranger come in, cause you have them all the time, because
     this being an interdenominational tabernacle, there's people come in that doesn't have
     this well training, they don't have it, they know no better. And their own pastor,
     they'll jump right up and break his message up, and tear a altar call up, and speak in
     tongues and everything like that. You're a better trained men than that. See? Then
     after the service, if he gets unruly, then it's the deacon's place to go to them. Don't let
     your pastor have to do it unless it comes to a spot where there's no deacon here, but a
     deacon is supposed to see to that. See?

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page97
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     55     Now, after the service... If the person just raises up and gives a message, the
     pastor if he wants to stop just a minute and go ahead, very well, see, that's up to the
     pastor. But then immediately let the deacon, before that person gets out of the
     building, take them to one side and talk to them about it. And if they question it,
     bring them to this tape and say, "This is what the bishop or the overseer of the
     church..." Which is bishop, the... any overseer. See, that's what it's called in the Bible,
     "bishopric," see, so that's general overseer of the church. Let... "This is the orders and
     the way our church does it. Now, we love for you to come give your message. But if
     you've got a message from the Lord and it's... let it be given, come up here and lay it
     on the platform, and our minister will read it to the congregation, a message to this
     congregation." But it must not be just repeating Scriptures, and things like that. It
     must be a direct message to the people, of something that's fixing to take place, or
     something they should do. Is it understood? All right.
     55a       Now, is there any better way to keep order in the church than to keep
     reminding the people with a--a repeat from the deacons accordingly?
     No, that, I just explained that. That's question number three.
     56 The deacons, your duty is to keep order in the church, with kindness and
     friendliness. And then you are supposed to, if someone gets out of order in the
     church, or comes in here like a drunk, or somebody come in.
     57 Like they shot that minister out of the platform the other night up there. You
     heard about that, that drunk coming in with a double-barreled shotgun. He screamed
     for his wife, and--and wanted his wife, and went up towards the pastor. And the
     pastor showed him his wife setting there, but he was going to shoot her right in the
     church, and the pastor started to dealing with him. And instead of--instead of... The--
     the man with the shotgun turned around and shot the pastor out of the pulpit, and then
     shot his wife, and then shot himself.
     58 Now, if there'd been a bunch of deacons there when that man entered that door
     with that shotgun, they'd have had their arms around him and the shotgun out of his
     hand. See? See, that's--that's orderly deacons. And now, these things have gone the
     way they're doing now and you might just expect anything. But, remember, the
     deacons are God's policemen in the house of God, no matter what anybody else
     thinks. Sometimes a policeman want not to have to go up and make an arrest on
     somebody, maybe one of his friends, but he's sworn to an office, he's got to do it
     anyhow. That's his duty to his city. See?
     59 That's the duty of a deacon to the church. And if someone jumps up and starts
     interrupting the pastor, or something other like that, and the pastor in his message, the
     deacons supposed to walk up to them people, two or three of them, say, "Could we
     speak to you, brother?" See? Bring him from the church, out into the office, in here

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page98
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     or some other office, and speak to him about it, saying, "You're not to interrupt." You
     know, it's a--it's a great fine by the law to interrupt a service anyhow. See? But some
     people, such as a delinquent person or something, come among you, you know, and--
     and some religious fanatic, and--and start carrying on, then the deacons... And if the
     deacons don't seem to be able to control it, then the trustee board or anyone else in
     the church can step up and give help to such a person. You know that.
     60     And--and now let me ask the question again here.
     Is there any better way to keep order in the church than to remind the people with a
     repeat from the deacons, now, occasionally?
     61 Now I think that the--the pastor, ever so often... Or play this tape, let that stand
     for a witness. Deacons are policemen, and their word is law and order. See? And they
     have the authority from the church and even from the laws of the nation to make that
     house
     of God be the right place. And anyone to contrary a deacon like that, is subject to--to
     two to ten years in federal prison. If you tell them to go and they don't do it, or
     something like that, somebody with disorderly conduct, he just don't know what he's
     doing to... He's subjecting himself, allotting himself to all kinds of fines, anything.
     62 And then if it comes to the spot that somebody... Now, like... And if somebody
     jumps up and gets disorderly... Just maybe speak in tongues or something, I wouldn't
     go in on that. See, let them go, 'cause if they're a stranger. If they're our own people,
     then just let... The next night, you deacons just get this tape, and say, "Now, we're
     going to play the order of the church before we start the service, I want everybody to
     understand it." And you pastors and you all can work together like that.
     62a     Now, Brother Branham, what about the Sunday school? Brother Branham,
     about the Sunday school (all right), should it be before the preaching service?
     63 Yes, we've always had it that way. Have the Sunday school before the preaching
     service. And that gives a chance for the little fellows who attend Sunday school, to
     dismiss their classes. And if--and if they want... and the little fellows don't
     understand it, and they have to set all the way through the preaching service and then
     have Sunday school, the little fellows are wore out. Let the Sunday school be first,
     have a set time, just at one set time that Sunday school goes to session. Sunday
     school superintendent is supposed to see to that, that that Sunday school goes to
     session at a certain time, set time. And it's dismissed at a certain time. All the Sunday
     school, allow so much time for that, and then dismiss.
     63a Should the teacher for the adult class be someone other than the pastor?
     64 If it's so agreed. If the pastor wants to teach the Sunday school and then bring
     the message later, that's fine and dandy if he wants to do the double service. But if he
     doesn't, then have your adult Sunday school teacher, see, for your adult class. And

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page99
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     then if--if the pastor has somebody else there in mind, and the person wants to do it,
     give yourself thirty minutes, or whatever you're going to allow your Sunday school
     for, thirty or thirty-five, forty minutes, whatever it is.
     65 And there should be a bell set here. And when that bell is tapped, that means...
     or either the church bell, when it taps on the outside, that's dismissing Sunday school.
     And when that bell rings, that means everything come to order right there.
     66 There be so much time then for a hymn or two, whatever you're going to sing.
     Not too much time, you'll wear the people out by keeping them too long, see. And
     just tap the bell, have a hymn and whatever you're going to do, and then send your
     classes to the place. And immediately when that time comes, say it's going to be at--at
     ten o'clock, or ten-thirty, or ten-fifteen, whatever it is, tap that bell and every teacher
     dismisses their class, come to the audience out here. And then... And give the report,
     Sunday school report, and then dismiss the whole thing, and let all that wants to stay
     for preaching service be next. See, then it's in order.
     66a Question? How many... [Someone asks Brother Branham, "Then we have a
     split class, in other words?"--Ed.]
     67 Oh, yes, you should have. A--a three-year-old can't understand what a fourteen-
     year-old would understand. I think I got that a little farther.
     67a How many classes should there be?
     68 You should put your classes in... Like a little bitty class that wants to have
     flannelgraph, that's too much for a fourteen-year-old boy or girl. See? You should
     have someone to take a class for those little babies, some old mother or something
     who knows how to take care of them. Other classes, I think, should be somebody
     who's more able to present the Word. See? And there should be classes. To say now,
     there'd be like a class of from... At least three classes.
     69 There should be a little bitty baby class, there should be from about five years
     old. And all the others under that should be kept with the mother, and taken to the
     nursery if it's necessary during the time of--of the preaching, if they go to carrying
     on. That's what the nursery's out there for.
     70 And I think that the--the classes should be arranged from like the little babies
     about five or six years old, up to eight or nine, ten, something like that. And then
     from ten years old on to fifteen should be in the--the teenage class. And then the adult
     class over the fifteen, 'cause they... if they're old enough to--to... nowadays they can
     get a job and they're wanting to vote at that age, almost; so they--they should be able
     to hear the Word, but come out in the main auditorium and have that.
     70a Who should be the teachers?
     71 There you are, that's up to you to vote your own teachers in. And you ought to
     do that, put them in there, get somebody. And meet with the church, and say,

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page100
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     "Who's... Who here feels led of the Lord?" And then get a qualified teacher. And then
     let it be done. It's got to be strictly business, brethren. If the teacher can't qualify to it,
     then change teachers.
     72 When the time comes, as under God, if I feel like that Orman Neville can't no
     more qualify to be pastor here, I'm going to mention it to the church. When I'd see
     one thing here, think that you deacons couldn't qualify to be deacons, I'm going to
     mention it to the church, that, "I find out there's a certain deacon out here doing
     something he shouldn't do, and he doesn't keep his post of duty," and so forth like
     that, or a trustee or
     whatever it is. I can't vote it in or out, the church has to do that, but I'm certainly
     going to present it before the church. See, because that's what it should do. That's
     what I'm supposed to be as overseer, I'm supposed to look and see what's going on.
     We're going to Heaven, not out here somewhere to a rally or something to have a lot
     of fun and run over one another, and play baseball. We're here handling the most
     gracious thing there is on earth, the Word of God, and it's to be carried on in godly
     order.
     72a Who should be the teachers?
     73 That's up to you to select them. But I would take, for the babies, I'd take an old
     woman, some that can do that. But for the teen-agers, I'd take some teacher that's
     strict, and not just going out here and having wiener roasts. That'd be all right if they
     want to go on a wiener roast, but just put all the thing to that... Put it to the Word, let
     somebody who is able to hold the Word. And it's going to be, this church stands not
     for... Wiener roast is all right, and--and little picnics that you want to go together and
     fellowship, that's fine, that--that's what you should do to entertain the children. But in
     this place in here, this is the Word of God. Wiener roast is when you get together, or
     something like that, but not in this house of God. And these know, of course we
     know we don't believe in this here foolishness of--of--of parties and everything like
     that around here, we--we... you know better than that.
     73a Who should be over the Sunday school to keep it in order?
     74 The Sunday school superintendent. And that's what his business is. He's not
     supposed to have anything to do with the deacons, trustees, pastors, or nobody else,
     he's got a office of his own. Whoever your Sunday school teacher is, I know not. But
     that Sunday school teacher is supposed to see that every class is in its place, and
     every teacher is present, or substitute another teacher for that teacher if they're not
     there on that day.
     75 Then just before the Sunday... While the--the lessons are going on, the Sunday
     school superintendent is to go by and take up the offerings that they've had in there
     (the Sunday school collections), and the report of how many present, how many

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page101
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     Bibles they had in this class, and so forth, and make a report of it. And then stand
     before the audience just before the preaching service, when he's given a spot to do it,
     when they have the Sunday school report after the Sunday school is over, tell how
     many teachers, how many present, and how many of the whole Sunday school total,
     the whole--whole total of offerings, and so forth like that. Deacons, trustees, pastors,
     are not supposed to do that. They have nothing to do into it, that is the Sunday school
     superintendent's job.
     76 And then if he sees that the Sunday school needs certain things, then he is to
     present that to the--to the trustee board, and the trustees has a meeting upon it, first.
     And then the trustees, if they find that there is sufficient funds and so forth, through
     the treasurer, then this can be purchased; if he wants something another for literature,
     or whatever it is, or some Bibles or something, they want to buy a Bible for the one,
     you know, that can find the most words and quote the most Scriptures, some prize or
     something they're going to give away like that, present, and they want to buy it
     through the church. Then let that be presented to the--to the--to the--the deacons...
     and then let them find out if it's--if it's--if it's in the treasury. See?
     77 And then I think that takes care of them five questions on that.
     77a Now on the next one, is:
     Brother Branham, in respect to the order of the church, we have tried to go
     accordingly to the way we understand the orders given in the dedication of the new
     church. And by doing so, some have gotten mad and left the church. And others will
     not listen to anything we say, especially the children. We have talked to the parents
     about their children, and they won't take care of them. Now, have we misunderstood?
     Or, are we going about it in the wrong way? Thanks.
     77b Now let me answer this as they come down.
     In respect to the order of the church, we have tried to go accordingly to the way we
     understood it given in the dedication of the new church.
     78 Now, that's correct, you're doing right. Now, this is supposed to be deacons, I
     suppose, 'cause it's right here at the deacon's job. All right.
     78a And by doing so, we have often... people has often gotten mad at us.
     79 They do at me, too! They'll do at any man. See? A person that does that, there's
     something wrong with that person. They're not right with God, for the Spirit of Christ
     is subject to Christ's teaching, Christ's house, Christ's order. See? And any man that...
     or any woman, or any persons, children, that would get angry with a godly deacon
     that would tell them to be... and, or any parent would get angry with a deacon...
     Really, we want everybody in this church that we can get; but if that would only
     cause trouble somewhere else, there's a thorn or "a rabbit in the woodpile," as we
     used to say. That person isn't right.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page102
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     80 If they leave, there's only one thing to do: let them go, and pray for them. See?
     Then maybe some of the deacons go to their church... or go to their house sometime,
     and find out why they left, and ask them what was wrong. Then, and if they... See if
     he can reconcile them. If they can't, then take two or three witnesses with him, that
     they might be understood. Then if they can't be understood, then it's told before the
     church if they are a member here of the church. Then they are...
     81 And then if they're not members of the church, course they're not members of
     this congregation, they should be made to be ruly. See, they--they've got to listen to
     our orders here, because this is the orders of the church. This is things we don't want
     to do, things that I don't like to do, but it's things that must be done. And I'm
     exposing myself in telling here by this tape, it's me, they can hear me talking and
     know that it's me, not you men. You've asked me these questions, and I'm giving it to
     you the best that I know how from the Word of God.
     82 "Now, if those people get angry and go out from you, what does the Scripture
     say about it, Brother Branham?"
     83 "They went out from us because they wasn't of us." And that settles it. "Left the
     church," that's what they did. All right.
     83a Others will not listen to anything we say, especially the children.
     84 The children are supposed to know discipline, they should get it at home. But
     even if it's mine, my kids get in here at anytime, they get disorderly, I don't want you
     to draw one string; Sarah, Rebekah, Joseph, Billy, or whoever it might be. You tell
     me, I'll see to it. If they can't behave, then they'll stay away from church till they do
     learn to behave. This is not an arena, this is the house of God. This is not a place to
     play, and skate, and write notes, and laugh, and cut up, this is the house of God, and
     is to be carried out godly.
     85 You come here to worship, not even to visit. This is not a--this is not a picnic
     ground, this is not a visitation place; this is the visitation place of the Holy Spirit,
     listen to what He has to say, not to one another. We don't come here to--to fellowship
     with one another, we come here to fellowship with Christ. This is the house of
     worship. And children must be disciplined, and if they are... of by the parents. Let it
     be known! That if these deacons... If these parents of the children will not listen to
     what these deacons said, then this parent should be corrected themselves.
     85a We have talked to the parents about their children, and they won't take care of
     them.
     86 If they are members of this church, then you should take two or three with you
     and call that parent into a private meeting, into one of the offices. I don't care who it
     is, if it's me, if it's Brother Neville, if it's Billy Paul and his little boy, if it's Brother
     Collins and one of his children, or any of the rest of you. We are... We love one

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page103
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     another, but we're duty bound to God and this Word. If it's Doc, no matter who it is,
     we're to call one another in and be honest with one another. How can God ever deal
     with us, if we're not honest with one another? How we going to be honest with Him?
     See?
     87 This is an order, we must keep the house of God! And deacons are supposed to
     know how to do that. See? And that's why I'm telling you now to keep them things
     caught up. And if this, you tell the parents and they won't listen to this, won't listen to
     it, then you get you another deacon or one of the trustees, or some good person of
     this church, and call... take your trus-... Take your deacon board, all your deacons
     together, say, "Brother Jones, Brother Henderson, Brother Jackson," or whoever it
     might be, "their children are disbehaving, and we've told them two or three times
     about their children and they won't listen."
     88 Then call Brother Jones in, or Brother Whoever-it-is, and say, "Brother Jones,
     we've called you in here for a meeting. We love you, and we... you're a part of us,
     you're one of us. Let me just set this certain tape and listen what Brother Branham
     said about it, see. Now, we've asked you to make those children behave. See? If they
     won't behave, and you can't make them behave in church, leave them with someone
     while you come to church until they learn how to behave themself in the house of
     God." See? But this is an order, it's got to be carried out! See?
     88a Now, the other question goes on.
     Now, have we misunderstood?
     89 No, sir. You haven't misunderstood, that's correct. I'm saying it again, the
     orders. In the army, they don't ask you, "Will you go do a certain thing?" If you're in
     the army, you're compelled to do it. See? And that's the way it is in the... I'm
     compelled to preach the Gospel. I'm compelled to stand for This regardless of what
     my other men and brethren and so forth say about It, I'm compelled to do this. I have
     to hurt feelings and cut men to pieces, but if I...
     90 You don't want to get like Oswald. See? If you can't disagree with a man and
     things, then shake his hand and still have the same feelings towards him, then there's
     something wrong with you. If I can't disagree with a man (bitterly, from one side to
     the other) and still think as much of him as--as Christ would, then there's something
     wrong with my spirit, I haven't the Spirit of Christ. See?
     91 If he says, "Well, Brother Branham, I--I believe that your teaching is this, that."
     92      "All right, brother, let's come together to reason, you and I. We'll take it
     ourselves. We'll go over here in the room to ourself, we'll reason it out." And he just
     cuts me to pieces, and I have to say things back to him. If in my heart I can't feel the
     same about him, that "he's still my brother and I'm trying to help him," then I'll never
     help him, there's no way for me to help him. If I don't love him, what's the use of

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page104
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     going over
     there? Tell him, "The first place first, Brother, I don't love you, and let me get that
     out of my heart right here before we go in there, because I can't help you until I love
     you."
     93 And that's right, and that's the way. See, carry it on, you've done it exactly right,
     that's the way it should be. You never misunderstood it.
     93a Are we going about it the wrong way?
     94 No, it is the right way to carry that. Let order be kept! Because it's constantly...
     Now, little children and mothers, little babies and things, they--they'll cry, and if they
     get crying too much and interrupting your pastor up there, remember, you are his
     bodyguards, you're his Gospel bodyguards. See? And if it's interrupting the message
     of the Lord, then you are deacons, what are you to do? Just like a man speaking in
     tongues, he's duty bound. And a man preaching, he's duty bound to the Word, he's
     duty bound to these things. Each one of you is duty bound to an office, and that's--
     and that's just what we're--we're here to do.
     95 Now, we don't want to wait too long, and I know I got an appointment in a few
     minutes, so I'll--I'll just try to hurry as quick as I can.
     95a Brother Branham...
     There's three, two questions on this card here.
     Brother Branham, what should be the policy of taking up offerings in the church for
     people? How should this be done?
     96 I think taking up offerings in the church for people should not be done unless it's
     for your pastor. And I think if someone comes in for charity, or something like that
     that... Or someone in--in bad need, like one of our members here or congregation, say
     if one of our brothers, and they had some trouble; well, I think then that should be
     announced at the platform, and let the pastor do that, I think it's his duty to do that;
     some brother that's in need of something, let him present it to the church, if it wants
     to be taken that way.
     97 If it's someone in need and--and then you don't want to take the offering up for
     the person that's in need, then let the boards meet together and agree upon certain
     sums that they want to give to this person out of the treasury. But if the treasury is
     low at that time and they can't afford to do it, then it has to be taken up, well, let--let
     the... let it be talked with the board, giving orders to the pastor, and let the pastor ask
     for this certain thing. Say, "Now, tonight, our Brother Jones, he had a--a horrible
     accident, his house burned down. And tonight, as Christians, we're going together, to
     each one of us make a pledge of what we can do to help Brother Jones back with his
     house again." See, or--or whatever it is. See, we--we'll do that. Let that be said from
     the platform, that's the

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page105
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     way to do that. And then let the pledges be give in, and then give it over to the
     treasurer of the church. And these pledges be paid through the treasurer of the
     church, and give to them. And--and give the person a receipt for it, 'cause I don't
     know whether that's tax redemption or not; I guess it is for something like that.
     98 Now, but when it comes to like a--a stranger come in, a stranger come in like
     he's... A man comes in and says, "Well, you know what? I--I--I'm on a journey and I-
     -I blowed out a tire, and I want a new tire. Take me up an offering tonight for a new
     tire." Now, that shouldn't be done. No, that should not be done. And if it seems to--if
     it seems to be a worthy thing, of somebody that you know, the board could meet and
     designate a certain amount of money from the treasurer to buy that man a tire or
     whatever it was. Or either if the church treasury is low, and it's decided by the board
     that these... The pastor shouldn't have nothing to do in this, the--the deacons is
     supposed to do this, see, or the boards. And now if this... If it's agreed, then give to
     the pastor, the pastor can take the offering. But, notice, if it's a stranger, it's in an
     emergency, a fellow needs a little money and you feel that it's for a just cause, (now
     this is my opinion), if it's for a real just cause and you know it is for a just cause...
     99      Now, first, if you go up there and look on my books at the house, of people
     coming by and say, "I'm Reverend So-and-so from this certain-certain church, and I--
     I had some trouble down the road here, and I--I need a set of tires," and knowed that I
     just come in from the meeting and had an offering, or something another like that, I'd
     give it to him, nearly, to go get a set of tires. And look in the minutes, there never
     was such a minister as that, never lived in such a place. And there is ten or twenty
     thousand dollars on the books from these years that I've give out like that, never
     know nothing about them where they was. Come to find out, other ministers say,
     "Why, he made me for so-and-so and so-and-such."
     100 Now, the church is not responsible, only for their own. That's right. Their own,
     they're responsible.
     101 But if there seems to be a worthy cause, and then if you--if you trustees might
     say, "Well, now wait a minute. This man, there is his car down there, that's his (did
     happen), and this. It's not of our congregation, see, but it is." Then if they want to do
     it like that, and would say something special about an outsider...
     102 Not our own, now, see, not our own people, our own people be taken up right
     here amongst their--their own, their brothers here, see.
     103 But if it's somebody on the outside, and a fellow says he's hungry or... and
     somebody wants to reach down in his pocket and give him some charity, that's up to
     you, but I'm talking about from the church. And then if the church people are asked
     to donate, then...
     104 Now, if you got an evangelist, of course, in here preaching, then you take...

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page106
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     you... that's understood before he comes, you know, that you'll give him an offering,
     or pay him salary, or whatever he wants to do.
     105 But then if this person is here, and it's for a just cause, and the pastor... and the
     board would want to agree and tell the pastor upon it, then let the pastor say, "A
     certain-certain person is setting here, we don't know the man, he come in and he
     asked us for... he says his children are hungry. We haven't got the time... we haven't
     had the time to investigate the--the--the--the--the claim." See?
     106       If there's anything like that, then our--our... If there's anything among our
     own, our--our own deacons go investigate those claims. See? And then if it's worthy,
     then do it. If it isn't worthy, don't do it, don't have to. But now if it's a man here, you--
     you--you let the pastor say, "Now, the trustee board told me they did not know this
     person. But the man is sitting here, he says his name is Jim Jones," or whatever it
     might be, "and he's sitting right here. 'Would you stand up, Mr. Jones? Now, Mr.
     Jones, at the end of the service, you stand just at the back door there, as you go out.'
     And if any people feel in your heart, or anything that you want to do for this man,
     give it to him as you go out." Is that understood, now?
     107 Did you get that on your... To those who are on the tape... And one of the...
     Brother Collins missed it on his tape. I want to reinstate that quotation again if...
     'cause he's one of the deacons.
     108 If--if there be any of this, one man comes in that you... and is in emergency
     and he wants an offering from the church, let the trustees or deacons meet together,
     and let the... meet together, and make the decision, then tell the pastor that it might be
     done like this. Let them... Let the pastor say that "This certain man," call him by
     name, "and we know him not. And our policy here is to investigate before we take
     offerings for people, and, that is, of our own. But this man here, he says he's broke
     down, he's had an emergency, he's got sick children, he's trying to get medicine for
     his children," or whatever it might be, the emergency. "Now, he's standing right here,
     'Would you stand up, sir?'" See, and let him stand up. And say, "Now you people see
     what... who he is.
     Now, at the close of this service this man shall stand there at the front door, and
     people going out, that feel that you want to contribute to this, you're at liberty; we
     only announced it in the church." You're not sanctioning it, you're only announcing
     it. See, that's hospitality to a stranger. See? Understand now? All right.
     109 I think that settles that question.
     109a       What about the tapes? Now has: What about the tapes? It's got a question
     mark. As, many are writing the office and blaming you for the action on the tapes.
     Also, about others around the church selling tapes, if Mr. Maguire has to pay
     royalties on them.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page107
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     110 All right. The tapes is by a contract. And if I... I don't know just exactly when
     the contract is expired, but the trustees, this belongs to the trustees; not the deacons,
     the trustees; not the pastor, trustees. The trustees, ever so often, they--they write a
     contract, as I understand it. And if this--this is wrong, then the trustees correct. These
     trustees has an agreement with the person who is making the tapes, and the tapes are
     by franchise.
     111 No one else can make tapes unless it be permitted by the person that has the
     franchise, and they cannot be sold unless permitted by the person that has the
     franchise, because that's the law, see, that the franchise holds it. See? And if the fran-
     ... the one who holds the franchise wants to let So-and-so make tapes, that's up to
     him. If he wants to let everybody make tapes, that's up to him; he wants everybody to
     sell tapes, that's up to the person who owns the franchise. He should have a--a little
     written note signed from the holder of the franchise, to make and sell tapes, because
     then he's clear of the law; 'cause if he don't, the man that has the franchise on it...
     You'd be liable-ing yourself to a... If there'd be a--a foul person that wanted to cause
     some trouble, he could really do it. You go over that franchise... 'cause that's just like
     a copyright, see, the same thing, you're not allowed to do it. It's a great fine to do that.
     112 So if the people are making tapes, perhaps they have an agreement from Mr.
     Maguire who--who has... who--who draws royalties on the tapes. And now... and I
     don't know about that, 'cause I'm not here enough with you to know who these things
     are, and who it would be referring to. I suppose that Mr. Maguire still has it, because
     out there, I'm in California or Arizona, where I'm at, I understand they're still buying
     tapes from California. Brother Sothmann, the father-in-law of Mr. Maguire, which is
     our brother here in the church. I think that Mr. Maguire still has it, the--the franchise
     on it.
     113 And now, there has been complaints all along on the making of the tapes. Now,
     when there is a complaint on anything pertaining to the finances of this church, it's
     duty bound to the trustees to see that thing is cleared. See? There should not, by any
     means, be anything.
     113a Now you see here, it says on this card here, that.
     They're writing to the office and blaming you.
     114 Frankly, I've had many letters on it, and want to know why they can't get their
     tapes. Now you know your contract with the one who has the franchise, as I
     understood... The tapes, I--I want nothing to do with them, myself, if anybody can
     use the tape for furthering the Gospel, "Amen!"
     115 But, first, Brother Roberson and them started to make them, Brother Beeler and
     several of them started to make them; and then the two boys, Brother Mercier and
     Brother Goad, made them for years; and, of course, when each one of the man has

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page108
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     made them, there has been complaints on every one. But, it seemingly here lately,
     there's been a great complaint about not getting their tapes. People has called me up
     from across the country. And then another, being, re-tracked tapes. They'll be playing
     one thing one minute, and play back on another another thing, and then you can't
     even understand what they are.
     116       Now, these people paying for these tapes should get a genuine tape. I don't
     care what they have to do to get it, we want to see our customers and our brothers
     (which they are our customers and our brothers), so forth, they must have an "A-
     number-1" tape. Now, you trustees see to that, that these people are satisfied. If not
     satisfied, their money must be returned to them immediately.
     117 And someone's called me, and say they been waiting for months for tapes.
     Now, I don't know how Brother Maguire tends to this. I--I don't know about that, as I
     know nothing about it. And I... It's none of my business to know nothing about that,
     it's his business with them and the trustees. And I'm not trying to step in, but I'm just
     telling you what the law of it is. See? The law of it is that these tapes, from the time
     that they send for them, them tapes are supposed to be on their road within a day or
     two, three or four, five days; after they send for them tapes, it's got to be in the mail
     or the franchise can be cancelled at any time when these orders are disobeyed. See?
     118       Now, and every six months or a year, this is supposed to be renewed, this
     agreement is supposed to be renewed. You're supposed to meet on this certain date
     that this franchise says that you've got to meet. And then it's supposed to be, that's,
     other people are supposed to come in at that time, and you're supposed to notify
     others who have been asking about the tapes, and come in with their agreement and
     set down and
     talk it over.
     119 Now, these orders must be carried out! See? And it must be carried right,
     because it is complaining. They complained with Leo and Gene, they complained
     with every one, it's complain with Brother Maguire, and it'll be complain with
     somebody
     else, but let's find out what their complaining is.
     120 Now, but when the tapes are begin to pile up, boxes of them, letters by the
     dozens pouring in, and they... See, it doesn't fall back to the tape maker, it falls on
     me. They're always bawling me out about it. Now, it's my duty as a Christian to see
     that the people get what they pay for, and I want you trustees to see that they get it. If
     they have to charge more, get a better tape, get a better machine, we want somebody
     to make that tape who makes it right. That's our interest. The tape must be made
     right! And the customer must be satisfied, or stop the whole tape thing altogether, we
     won't have no tapes, just let anybody make them that wants to. But if they're going to

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page109
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     charge for them, let them see that they get what they paid for, 'cause that's
     Christianity. That's no more than do...
     121 And when they come here to listen to the Gospel, I want to give them the best
     that I know how to give them, see, and when they come here I want you to see that
     everybody and everything's carried on. That's the reason I'm telling you deacons,
     trustees, and pastors, here tonight, that you must carry this out to the letter, because
     the people are coming here to find God, and we got to have these things in order.
     122 And also the tapes must be put into their place. If they have to charge more, if
     they got second-class tapes they're running, then get better tapes. If they have to
     charge more for them, charge more for them, let the person get what they charge for.
     123 I'm not interested in one bit of royalty, not one penny, and neither is the
     tabernacle interested; I don't want you to be. Don't be interested in that, in--in
     royalties. If they'd pay some, I guess you'd have to take a little royalty on account of
     they're being made here. I think that's something that he said to Mr. Miller and them
     about the law, we have to take certain royalties or so forth. That's up to you all to see
     to that. I'm not have nothing to do with what... That's set together; you all take care of
     that. I can't take care of all of it, I'm just telling you the way it should be and must be
     run. That... And you understood, I said "must be run." So we want this run out right.
     124 And if you have to have a better machine to take it, then get a better machine.
     If it has to be... Now, I said to them, I said, "Every meet-... mission that I go into the
     field, before I go, I'll notify you what sermons I'm going to preach on out there,
     something that I've already..." And I promised you all, which I'm going to retape back
     again Sunday night, that "Before I preach any new message, it would come from this
     tabernacle first, because they seem to get a better recording." You remember that?
     Then when I come here to preach my messages, then go back out and notify the tape
     man what services. They ask me, "What ones? What you going to preach?" I told
     him,
     "this night I will on so-and-so, and this night on so-and-so," so they can have it made
     up and ready for the customer to get it right there; got it right with them, a better tape
     than they'd have out in the meeting, because it's made right here at the tabernacle
     where
     the acoustics are good. See?
     125 Now, now I'm going into this great evangelistic, what I'm going to do now in
     overseas and things, I can't promise that, you see, I can't promise that I'll preach my
     first message here. Because when you preach around, the messages, you've got to
     have something that... It--it gets stale in you, and it's bound to get stale to the ones
     that's listening at it. You've got to do something different, you see, and bring just as
     the Message is there. But let them put a machine in the field, or whatever it is, that'll

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page110
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     take these tapes perfectly.
     126 And make a perfect tape, and each tape played back and checked before it
     goes, or just stop the whole thing; don't even have nothing to do with it, let every
     man make his own tape. See? But get it done right, see, so that this complaint will
     stop. We don't want no complaints at all. If there is a complaint, let's take care of it,
     then we'd have it over with.
     127 Now, I'll hurry just as quick as I can. Billy got about two more questions here,
     or three, then we'll be finished.
     127a How far, Brother Branham, can or should a deacon go to keep order in the
     church? Should we keep the order or wait until Brother Neville tells us what we
     should do?
     128 That isn't Brother Neville's job, that's your job. See? You don't tell Brother
     Neville what to preach on, how to preach it. See, that's your job, you deacons, you're
     supposed to do that. You take care of that. That's nothing to Brother Neville, that's
     your job. See?
     129 Now, if a policeman's out here on the street and he sees a man stealing property
     out of a back of a car, should he call the mayor and say, "Now, Mayor, your Honor,
     sir, I am working for you here on this police force. Now, I find a man up the street
     here, he's--he was stealing some tires off of a car last night. Now, I just wonder,
     what's your opinion of that?" Huh! See? See, that wouldn't be sensible. Would it?
     No, sir. If he was doing something wrong, arrest him.
     130 And if a man's doing something wrong here in the church, or anybody, stop
     them, talk to them. Don't be arrogant; but if they won't listen, speak in a way that they
     know what you're saying. See? See, like you tell a child, say, "Walk back there," and
     he's misbehaving. Deacons, stay at your place! Put... There's four of you, stay two in
     front and two in the back, on these corners or somewhere like that. And watch real
     close, for renegades and everything else come in like this, you see. And you be on the
     guard, and you get to your post of duty and stay there, that's your seat; or stand right
     beside a wall and watch everybody come in.
     131 A deacon takes care of the house of God. Someone come in, speak to them;
     be there to greet them, shake their hand. That's, you're the policeman, "Could we
     show you the cloak room?" or "Would you be seated?" "Could we hand you a
     songbook or something?" or "Now we would like for you to enjoy yourself here, and-
     -and pray, and--and we're happy you're here with us tonight." Lead them right down
     to a place, and say, "Would you like to be closer or would you like to be back here?"
     or wherever more. That's hospitality.
     132 A policeman (or the deacon) is a military police to the army, courtesy, but yet
     with authority. See? You know what a military police is, is actually, if he carries out

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page111
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     his rights, I think he's just like a chaplain. You see? It's courtesy and everything, but
     yet he has an authority. See, you must mind him. See, he puts... These rookies get out
     there and get drunk, why, he puts them in their place. And so is the deacon to put
     them in their place.
     133 Now, remember, the deacon is a policeman, and a deacon's office is actually
     more strict than most any office in the church. I don't know of an office any more
     strict than the deacon's office. That's right, because he's got a--he's got a real job, and
     he's God's man. He's God's man just as much as the pastor is God's man. Certainly, he
     is. He is God's servant.
     134 Now the trustees, only thing, they're under duty by God to watch that finances
     and take care of that, the things that goes on like that. I told you about them tapes,
     and--and about other things here that goes on, about the building and repairs, and
     taking up the finances and things, that's--that's what they're trustee of: the property,
     finances and things. The deacons has nothing to do in that. And neither does the--the
     trustee have anything to do with the deacons' office.
     135 Now, if the deacons wants to ask the trustee's help on anything, or--or the
     trustees the deacon's, and you're all working together... But that's your duties, is
     singling out. See? All right.
     136        Now, no, don't ask Brother Neville. If Brother Neville asks you to do
     something, then that's--that's your pastor, with courtesy and love and everything... If
     he'd say, "Brother Collins, Brother Hickerson, Brother Tony, or somebody, would
     you see what's wrong back there in the corner?" At the post of duty like that, you
     know, as
     a real man of God.
     137 Remember, you are not working for Branham Tabernacle, neither are you
     working for Brother Neville or me, you're working for Jesus Christ. See? You...
     That's who you do it... And He--He's respecting your loyalty just the same as He is to
     that pastor or to anybody else, He's expecting your loyalty! And we want to show our
     loyalty.
     138 Now, sometimes it gets hard. It's hard for me to see a minister setting there I
     love with all my heart, just have to really tell him; see, but in a way of love, I've got a
     hand out to help him. But, see, and they come to me and say, "Brother Branham,
     you're just a wonderful person, why can't you just compromise a little on that
     baptism, and on this, that, and the other, that security, and the serpent's seed?"
     139 I say, "Brother, I love you, but now let's just take... let's take the Scripture and
     see who's right or wrong." See, I've got to be able to...
     140 "Oh, now, Brother Branham, I tell you, you're all wrong." See, goes flying up.
     141 "Oh," I say, "well, perhaps I am. Then, if I am, surely you'd tell me, you're...

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page112
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     You know where I'm wrong at, then you show me where I'm wrong." And I'm willing
     to take, see.
     142 Same thing, "Hey, you ain't got no business telling that child to set down."
     Now, the deacon is the--is the custodian at the house of God. See? Now if you... He
     takes care of the house of God and keeps it in order. Now, that's what the Scripture
     says, and if you got anything else that a deacon should do, you come tell me. See,
     there's the same thing, but that--that's your duty to do that, yeah, just back up.
     143 And you should ask nobody, that's--that's just your duty. Brother Neville don't
     ask nobody, the church don't have to ask... I mean, the--the--the trustees don't have to
     go ask Brother Neville if--if he wants the roof put on the tabernacle. See? No, no,
     that's not nothing to Brother Neville, it's not nothing to me, that's to you. The deacons
     don't have to...
     144 The same way to the pastor. "What are you going to preach on? I don't want
     you to do this." They ain't got no business saying that, he's under God, see, their
     pastor. And then if--if--if... Brother Neville, he preaches a message that the Lord has
     give us, and we're all together in this. And if I tell Brother Neville something wrong,
     God holds me responsible for it. That's right. See? So God is the Boss of all of it.
     See? And we're just working as His ambassadors, you see, down here in these
     offices.
     144a Please...The next question, and then I think we got one more, and then we--
     we'll stop.
     Please explain just how the gifts of tongues are to operate in our church. I have did
     that. When can the church be put in order as... or just where the gifts are to operate?
     We've just explained that.
     144b Just how many c-h-r-i-s-t-m-a... Could you see what that is? [Brother Billy
     Paul says, "Instruments."--Ed.] Oh. Instruments. How many instruments are we to
     have in church besides organ and piano?
     145 Well, it depends on if you had a string band or whatever you had, you see. I
     don't know what you got, what this means, I don't understand it. But the organ and
     the piano are property of the church. Now, if the song leader would take a notion to
     have trumpets and cornets and so forth like that, and somebody's come in the church
     and they play these instruments... And they're in a band, and--and then, course, then
     that's for your trustees, to take it up with the trustees and see if they got money to buy
     their instruments and so forth, or whatever like that. I guess that's what their question
     is.
     146 But if they have their own instruments, wonderful. If they don't have their own
     instruments, and they're a member here of a band, not just a person running through
     here and plays once in a while, and runs out like that, it's got to be a band in the

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page113
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     church. The church wouldn't buy a--a--a trumpet for a man that plays it here and
     tomorrow night somewhere else, and somewhere else, and drop in once in a while
     and play a little bit. No, sir. It's got to be a band right here, organized band with the--
     the leader, and then the church, talk to them about buying the instruments.
     146a Please explain just how we are to... how we deacons can keep the people just
     in the sanctuary before or after... Please explain. [Brother Billy Paul reads the
     question, "How do we keep the people quiet in the sanctuary before and after
     church?"--Ed.] Oh, all right.
     147 I would suggest this, brethren. Now, there's a great thing. Wish we had more
     time to put on it, for it's--it's... it--it means something to us, see. Now, the church is
     not a...
     148 If you was to... If you want to run this tape down some night and play it before
     the meetings, that the people will understand it, let this be played; just this part of the
     tape but no more, just this. Any part of this that you want played for a certain thing,
     just keep running it till you find it, and then play it. See, 'cause it's questions.
     149 Now, deacons of the church, and as I--as I said, are the police of the church.
     But the church is not a general meetinghouse for--for fellowship and friendship and
     frolic. The church is a sanctuary of God! We come here... Now, if we want to meet
     one another, let me come to your house or you come to my house, or you go to one
     another's house and meet one another. But just to frolic around through the church,
     and talking and things like that, it's not right, brethren; we come here, we get the
     whole thing off of our mind. If we would come here...
     150 Look the way we used to do it years ago. Sister Gertie was the pianist. When I
     pastored here, I--I had to be pastor, deacon, trustee, and everything else at once, see,
     but I--I had to do it. Now you don't have to do it that way, see, because you got men
     to carry this out. But when the... I had ushers, Brother Seward and all of them at the
     door. They had books piled around there at the door, setting in a chair, or something
     or another. And when someone come in, you showed them a place to hang your coat
     or helped them to their seat, give them a songbook and asked them to "be in prayer."
     And then everybody set in their seat and silently prayed until starting time. See? And
     then at starting time, Sister Gertie, the pianist, got up there and started the music
     before... when the people are--are coming together.
     151 I would suggest to have your organist to get up there with some real nice
     music. And if she can't be here, put it on tape and then play it, or something another.
     And have music, real sweet sacred music going on. So... And ask people... And if
     people goes to talking and carrying on like that, let one of the deacons get up at the
     microphone up there at the desk and say, "sh, sh, sh," like that. Say, "At the
     tabernacle here, we--we want you to come to worship. Let's not make noise now,

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page114
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     listen to the music. Get your seat, set down, be reverent see, pray or read the Bible.
     This in the sanctuary here is where the Lord dwells. And we want everybody to be
     real reverent and worship, not to be running around, talking before the services.
     Congregate yourself, and you've come here to talk to the Lord. See? Either be in
     silent prayer, see, or read your Bible."
     152      When I went into the Marble church up there at--at the... Norman Vincent
     Peale, you've heard of him, you see. And I went into... A great psychology, he's a
     teacher, you know. And I went into his church, I just thought that, "I wished my
     tabernacle would do that again." Them deacons standing right there at the door just as
     soon as you come in. They, of course, they hand you a Sunday school slip, taken you
     right down. You had to empty three times, you know, it only hold about four or five
     hundred, you know; and New York's a big place, and he's a popular man. And I think
     they had to have one class at ten o'clock and one at eleven, same sermon right over
     again, same service exactly, same sheet of paper. But when they dismissed, and they
     had (I believe) five minutes for the church to be exactly... Nobody else could come in
     till they got out, then the deacons opened the way and the other church filled up.
     They had those old box seats, you know, they go in like that, and set down in the
     pews where you open the door. Old fashion, it's been standing there for--for nearly
     two hundred years, I guess, the old Marble church has.
     153 And you could have heard a pin drop anywhere in that church, and everybody
     in prayer for at least thirty minutes before the first note was ever hit on the organ, the
     prelude. And just everybody in prayer. I thought, "How wonderful it is!" Then when
     that minister... That prelude, about... I think they played one prelude for about three
     to five minutes, How Great Thou Art, or something like that, and on like that. And
     then when they did, everybody stopped praying and was listening to the prelude. See,
     it give a change, from prayer to the prelude. And then when they played that, then the
     choir leader directed the choir. Then they had a congregational song and the choir.
     And then they were ready for their Sunday school class. See? And then--and then
     when it was over, there was nothing went on except Divine worship, all the time, and
     that's what we come there for.
     154 And I think it would be a good thing if our church... And I'm just saying this,
     we're going to do it. See? Let's do it. If somebody does anything, the thing... And I
     think it'd be a good thing. If it's a good thing, then let's do it. See? We don't want to
     put off any good thing, we'll do it, anyhow. See? And just go ahead and--and stand
     up there and if they start on a morning, or something like that, people visiting, just let
     someone, or one of the--one of the deacons, or somebody walk up there and say, "It's
     been made a rule in the tabernacle here..."
     155 I don't know if they do it, they may--may. I'm never here, you see, I don't

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page115
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     know. I'm never here before services.
     156 And when they come in and they start talking, let somebody get up there and
     say, "Sh-sh-sh, just a moment." See? Let the--let the... Get a little sister, get her up
     there and get her playing that music. If you don't, put it on tape and get it out there,
     see, of the organ music. And say, "Now we're... There's a new rule in the tabernacle.
     When people enter here, we're not to whisper, talk, but to worship. See? Now, just a
     few minutes the service will be starting. Until then, just either read your Bible or bow
     your head and silently pray." And a few times like that, they'll all learn. See? See?
     157 You hear somebody talking, and then it gets down... for after a few times like
     that, after a while you hit a place where somebody say... See somebody talking,
     nobody else talking, you see, well, then one of the deacons walk up and say, "We--we
     want you to worship during the time of the service." You see? See? See, it's not a
     house of talk, it's a house of worship. Understand?
     I think that was it. Please explain... Yeah. Let's see. Yeah. Please explain how to...
     the deacons should... in the sanctuary. Yeah, that's all. That's right. That's it.
     157a All right, now, here's the last one.
     Brother Branham, when we have had opportunities on the beginning of the service...
     I'm--I'm... the comp-... though we had complaints.
     It's wrote real little. And a "had complaints," ain't it? [Brother Billy Paul says, "Uh-
     huh," and continues helping Brother Branham read the small writing--Ed.]
     ... had complaints in the beginning of the service. We have... Let's see. We--we--we
     have songs, testimonies, and prayers, and prayer requests, special singing, and m-a-...
     maybe get it... get into the message at eleven, to... or after, but don't have too much
     time for the Word. Some of the people get restless and have to leave before it is--is...
     before--before it's over. Is... Please explain how many songs, and what time to start
     the message. And some--sometime we have prayer--prayer requests and it ends up in
     a testimony meeting, some things that--that don't be... don't seem kind of right at the
     time.
     158 Now, I hope I've got that. Billy is trying to help me here. Upon the tape, you
     have to... somebody in our midst may... meeting, in the service, listening to what this
     was, is Billy trying to help me read it because it's wrote very, very fine, and I couldn't
     make it out. I got the general idea, it is, "How many songs should we sing before
     starting the service, and what time should service start?"
     159 Now, the first thing I want to make here is a confession. And when I'm wrong,
     I want to admit "I'm wrong." See? And I--and I--I'll make a confession here that "I
     am kind of the leader of that." Because it's been me holding these long services and
     things, is what got the church into this routine, see, of doing so, but it shouldn't be.
     And now, remember, I have... I am... Was telling you all, "Sunday night, if the Lord

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page116
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     willing, on Sunday night, that, I'm trying to allot my services from henceforth, if I
     have to stay a week extra, to about thirty or forty minutes at the longest for my
     services."
     160 Because I have found this, that a service that's... It stands up, and the message
     is given in the power; if you go too far, you wear the people out and they don't get it.
     The reason I been giving... I knowed that all along. See? The most successful
     speakers are those who have exactly... Jesus was a man of few words, watch His
     sermons. Watch Paul's sermon on the Day of Pentecost, probably taken him fifteen
     minutes, and he punched the... there, something that--that--that sent three thousand
     souls into the Kingdom of God. See, just right straight to the spot. See?
     161 And I--I am guilty. Because, the reason I have done this, not because I didn't
     know different, but I'm making tapes, see, and these tapes will be played in houses
     for hours after hours after hours. But as you will find out in the coming Sunday, the
     reason that I have done it, this coming Sunday, the reason I have done these things... I
     might say it right now on the tape. The reason that I have did this is because of this
     tremendous weight upon me for the Message of this hour, to get It out. Now the
     Message is out, now I'm taking a thirty minutes or something like that, after the first
     of the year, in my meetings out in the... everywhere I go, and try and even set my
     watch to a thirty minute, or not over forty at the most; punch to that Message, and
     make the altar call if I... or whatever I'm going to do, or call a prayer line; and not
     take that much time, because you do wear the people out. I know that.
     162 But looky here. I guess, in the year, we haven't had a dozen people get up and
     walk out, and sometimes I keep them here for two and three hours. See? That's right.
     Because it's been making these tapes that goes all over the world, see. And the people
     out there, they'll set for hours and listen to That; and ministers, and so forth,
     Germany, Switzerland, Africa, Asia, and everywhere, see, listening to That.
     163 But, see, for the sanctuary, for the church... And that's all right. If you're here
     making a tape, and you got a two-hour tape, put a two-hour message on it; but if
     you're not making a tape for something like that, then cut our message, see, cut our
     message down. I tell you why, there's some fill up easy, some fill up long, see, like
     that, and you got to be at a happy medium between that.
     164      And now, many times that we ruin our services by a dragged out testimony
     meeting, which I know I'm guilty of doing it. And you get out when we used to have
     street meeting, and let some old brother stand out there, and he'll stand out... And ask
     him to offer a word of prayer, and he'll pray for the mayor of the city, and for the
     governor of the state, and for the President of the Union, and--and everybody like
     that, and all the pastors around, you know, each one by number, and Sister Jones
     that's in the hospital, and things like that; and the people standing, walking by on the

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page117
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     street meeting, just keep--just keep on walking. See? He just wore them out. Well,
     just a...
     165 See, the main thing now, your prayer is to be in secret, your main, long prayer.
     Pray all... Enter into the secret closet, close the door. There's where you want to pray
     all day, all night, or two hours, pray there. But in here, when you've got the attention
     of the people, make your prayer short, quick, at it. Make all your service... And put
     the most of your service time into that Word. That's the main thing! Punch that Word
     just as hard as you can, see, get the Word to the people.
     166       Now, here's my suggestion. Now, now remember, I've confessed that I'm
     guilty of leading this on. But then I've told you why I've led it on, I'm making two-
     hour tapes to be sent overseas and everywhere, of a Message, you see. But the church
     shouldn't pattern that (the message here at the tabernacle) after them tapes (two
     hours) to be gone places, see, and go out like that.
     167 Now, here's what your order... Let me just give you an example. Would that be
     all right, a suggestion? I would say that the church should have its doors open at a
     certain time, let the congregation come in, let the songs be playing. And let
     everybody come in to worship, not to visit. And don't let them visit afterwards, tell
     them to "Dismiss and get out, not to visit. If you wanted to visit, there's the whole
     outside. But this is the sanctuary, let this be kept clean." Now, if the Spirit of the
     Lord is dealing here, let's keep it the Spirit of the Lord. See? And--and It'll keep
     moving. If you don't, you just mark my words, it's going to fall; it sure will. And let's
     keep it, it's our duty, that's why I'm here tonight. Just keep this thing lined up with
     these--with these orders.
     168 Now look, I would say this. Ordinarily, unless we are giving out especially...
     and tell them you're going to tape a message. See? Now, if Brother Neville has a
     message here that he's going... he's got a message he wants to get out to the people,
     out on tape, or something, say, "Now, next Sunday night we're going to tape a two-
     hour tape," three-hour tape, or what--or whatmore. "We're going to give a two- or
     three-hour tape," or whatever it might be, "next Sunday night." And then the people
     know. And then when they come in, say, "Now, we are going to tape a message
     tonight. And I got a message here that it's one... I want it taped and sent out. I been...
     I feel led to send this message out. And it's going to be taped, it may be two hours,
     three hours, or whatever it is." Say that.
     169 But, ordinarily, just as I do when I'm going into a place like one of them
     Business Man's meetings, or I'm out in my meetings out there for a prayer line. If I
     stood up there and give a three-hour message of a night before having the healing
     service, you see where it puts me? See? Why, the people, next night your
     congregation's half of what it was. See? Cause they just can't do it, they got to go to

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page118
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     work and everything.
     170      I'd suggest this, that ordinarily... Now, I watched Brother Neville last night
     when he preached. Now, I know we all... That was a startling message. I took notes
     of him, got here in my pocket, to use it in other messages of my own. That's right.
     The Way of Escape, see, and that was a marvelous message. You see how quick he
     got that through? See, about thirty-five minutes, see, and he--he had it over. See?
     Now, that was fine. Now, and Brother Neville, usually his messages are like that.
     See, that's not long. See? But where you kill your meeting is all that drawn out stuff
     before you get to it. See?
     171 Now, and--and where you do that... Now, I know, and now look, I'm not
     saying that dishonorly to you trustees, or deacons, or--or pastor, but I'm just telling
     you: see what's Truth, and this is what it must be. Now, you... What does it, now,
     everybody, you all, good-natured, every one of you men are good-natured. If it wasn't
     so, I'd say, "All but Brother So-and-so, he's not got a good nature, we're all praying
     for him." But you--you do have good natures, and you're long-suffering, gentle, quiet
     sort of men. That's fine, but don't be a sissy with that.
     172        Jesus was good-natured, too, but when it come time to say things, "It's
     written, 'My Father's house is made a house of prayer,' and you are making it a den of
     thieves." See? He--He knowed when to speak and when not to. That--that--that's
     what we got to do. See? There never--never was a person like Jesus, He was God.
     And remember, He even... Talk about being a deacon in the church, He--He took
     over! He plaited some ropes together, and He didn't wait to gently walk them out, He
     beat them out, see, at the house of God. And He was playing the part of a deacon, for
     an example to you deacons. See, He was your example. "And now, it--it's written,
     'My Father's house is made a house of prayer.'" Now, remember, Jesus was a deacon
     then, you know that Jesus was taking the part of a deacon.
     173 When He come to the part of a pastor, what did He say? "You blind Pharisees,
     leaders of the blind!" See, He was taking the part of a pastor then.
     174 And when He told them what was going to happen, He taken the part of a
     prophet. See?
     175 And when they required that there must be tribute paid, He taken the part of a
     trustee, "Peter, go down and cast the hook into the river, and the first fish you take up
     has got a coin in his mouth. Pay them, see, pay your just debts." Said, too, "Give
     Ceasar what's Ceasar's, God's what is God's."
     176 He was both pastor, prophet, trustee, and deacon. Sure was! So then you see
     what He did, let that be your example in the house here at this Branham Tabernacle,
     that we want to be a house that He'll be honored in with everything, every office,
     every place, that there be no taking back. There be gentleness, and sweetness, and

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page119
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     kindness, but just straight on the line, every man's at his post of duty. See? That's the
     way, that's the way He wants it. He never slagged. When it come time to say, call
     what was what, He called it. When it come time to show gentleness, then He showed
     gentleness. He was sweet, kind, understanding; but stern, and everything was right to
     the dot with Him, and He did that for your example. Now, the Holy Spirit just give
     me that. So I never thought about that, Him being a deacon, before, but He was. See?
     He--He acted
     as deacon.
     177 Now I'd say this, say if your services began at seven-thirty, if that's the time,
     open your church half hour beforehand, seven o-clock. Let the pianist... Tell the
     organist... Do you pay her? You all pay the organist? Is she paid, or the pianist? She
     does it free-will. Ask her with gentleness. Even if she wants to have pay for it, to give
     her something for it, tell her we want her a half hour before service. And if she says,
     "Well, I can't do it," or something, complaint, then just have her come here and make
     a tape of some sweet organ music. You see? And let... put that on the... Don't have to
     be here every time, set your tape up. See? Let one of the deacons, trustees, or ever
     who opens, the janitor, put it on up there, the tape on, and let it be playing while the
     people come. See? Cause if the deacons are not here, or somebody, let a trustee or
     somebody be here to do it, then let them play for a half hour.
     178 But exactly seven-thirty, let that bell toll on top the building. See? You still
     have your bell out there? Yeah. All right, let your bell toll at seven-thirty, and that
     means that we're not going to walk up and down the church and shake hands with
     Joneses and all that. Let the song leader be on the job! If there's no song leader there,
     let the deacons see that there... or the... see that there is somebody to start leading
     songs when that bell starts tolling. "Turn to your hymnbook, number so-and-so."
     See? Let it be right on the dot at--at seven-thirty.
     179         All right, then have a congregation song, and then maybe a second
     congregational song, and then have somebody already spoke of, if you can, to lead in
     prayer. Let the--the pastor, ever... Well, the pastor shouldn't be there, the--the song
     leader should do that. It's Brother Capps, I think. See, he'd know what to do, let--let
     him have someone spoke... or either lead in prayer hisself. Have the congregation to
     stand in prayer, see, just stand up, and let somebody lead in prayer. Now, if you don't
     watch...
     180 Now, we believe that everybody should come to the house of God and pray,
     that's the--that's the place of prayer. But when you're in that sanctuary, conserve your
     time. See? You call them all up around the altar, you'll find out there'll be somebody
     will be there for fifteen, twenty minutes, and your time's all run out.
     181       Let your... see, your praying's at home. Jesus said, "When you pray, don't

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page120
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     stand like the hypocrites do, and--and for a long... maybe a long prayer, and say this,
     that, or the other, and--and all like that for a showing." See? He said, "When you
     prayer... pray, enter into the closet, secret closet, close the door behind you; pray your
     Father that seeth in secret, He shall reward thee openly." Now, that's the way to have
     secret
     prayer, that's what He said do.
     182 But when you, somebody, when they come in, like the song leader, say, "All
     right..." After the first song, then let somebody have prayer, ever who it is, just a
     short prayer. Don't stand up and pray for all the governors, and so forth like that. If
     there's any prayer requests, let it be known, let it be sent in, have them sent in. Write
     it, say, "Here." "For tonight, in having prayer, we're remembering Sister So-and-so,
     Brother So-and-so in the hospital, So-and-so, and So-and-so, and So-and-so.
     Remember them in your prayers as you pray. Brother Jones, will you lead us in
     prayer. Let's stand." See? Let it be laid on the platform. Tell them, let them get used
     to that, "If you got a request for prayer, lay it up here, up here." Don't be speaking,
     "Who has a request now, would you be let it known by..." And then, the first thing,
     somebody get up and say, "Glory to God!" And you know, start off like that, and the
     first thing you know, it's a half hour 'fore they set down sometimes. See?
     183 We are responsible for this church, not others; this is our responsibility to God.
     These offices are your responsibility to God. See? The reason I'm standing here
     tonight, telling you all this, is because it's my responsibility to God; it's your
     responsibility to carry it out. See?
     184 Now, and when something like that... let somebody lead in prayer, and when
     they do, that's fine, let them lead in prayer then set down.
     185 And if you--you got a special... Now, I wouldn't say this, I wouldn't go along...
     And if anybody wants to sing a special, announce it in the church. Tell them that
     "Any specials, or anything that wants to be sang, let them see the song leader before
     the church ever starts." And have it... Say, "Well, I'm sorry brother, I'd like... sure
     like to do it, but I--I've got my special for tonight. Maybe if you tell me you're going
     to be here on a certain night, I'll put it on the program for you. See, I got my program
     wrote out here."
     186       Let--let Brother Capps or ever who is leading songs... And have a song
     leader, no matter who it is. And don't let them stand up and say... or carry on a lot,
     they're a preacher, see. Let them stand up there and lead songs, that's their business.
     187 It's the pastor's business to preach, see, not lead songs. He ain't to lead songs,
     the song leader leads songs. He's responsible, and should come out freshly under the
     anointing of the Holy Ghost, from the office in there, somewhere, when it's come
     time. He don't even have to be on the platform when this is going on. Let him stay in

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page121
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     the office back there, see, or back in here, or wherever it is, and the intercoms here
     will bring it in, see, when it's time. When he hears that last... if there is a special, like
     a solo, duet, or something, for your third song. See?
     188 That you've had two congregational songs, prayer, your offering if you're going
     to take it. And let every man be at his post of duty. Say, "All right, while we're
     singing this last song now, if the ushers will, let them come forward for the evening
     offering." See? And while they finish singing that song, here's the ushers standing
     here. Say, "All right, now we're going to have prayer," and they offered prayer, "We
     want to remember So-and-so here, and So-and-so," and read that off, you know, like
     that, like that. "All right, everyone stand. Brother, will you lead us in prayer?" Then
     it's all over.
     189        Then while they're singing this second song, or whatever you're singing,
     you're... take your offering if you're going to take your offering. Leave it... I'd take
     your first song, and then have your evening offering, and then go on with your
     second song, and then on through. Then let your last song here... Let your last song,
     see, be the pastor's call. And as soon as that last hymn is sang, let the organ start with
     your--your prelude, your pastor walks out. See, everything is in order. Everybody is
     quiet. Nothing else to be said. Every deacon at his post of duty. The pastor standing
     there.
     190 He come out, greet his audience, turn to his book and say, "Tonight, we're
     reading from the Bible." See, after he makes it up, "We're reading from the Bible."
     And it is a good thing sometimes if you say, "In respect to the Word of God, let's
     stand to our feet while we read the Word." See, then read, "Tonight, I'm reading from
     the Book of Psalms," or whatever it is. Or either let somebody else read it, the song
     leader, or associate, somebody there with you, let him read it, whatever; but it'd be
     best if you read it yourself, if you can. Then read it like that, and then take your text.
     See? And that much time, you've spent about thirty minutes, it's right then about eight
     o'clock.
     191       And from eight to about a quarter till nine, somewhere between thirty and
     forty-five minutes, lay that Word in there just as the Holy Ghost gives it to you, see,
     just like that, just place it right in there the way He says do it, see, under the
     anointing.
     192 Then take your altar call, say, "If anyone here in this church that would like to
     accept Christ as Saviour, we're asking you, inviting you to the altar right now, just
     stand to your feet." See?
     193 And if--and if no one stands, say, "Is there anyone here that's a candidate for
     baptism, that's already has repented, and wants to be baptized in water for the
     remission of sins? If they wish to come, we're giving you the opportunity now. Will

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page122
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     you come while the organ is still playing?" See?
     194 Nobody comes, say then, "Is there anybody here that would... that has never
     received the Baptism of the Holy Ghost and would want to do so tonight, would want
     us to pray for you?" Well, maybe somebody comes up, then let two or three lay hands
     on them, pray for them. Send them right back in one of them rooms, somebody in
     there with them, instruct them somewhere how to come through with the baptism of
     the Holy Ghost. The congregation is all away from them.
     195 If anybody comes to be... wants to accept Christ and standing there at the altar
     to be prayed for, make your... let them pray. And when they do, just say, "Bow your
     heads now, we're going to pray." And say, "Do you believe?"
     196 If any little thing that would delay the congregation in anyway at all, send them
     right into the prayer room, and go in there with them, or send somebody in there with
     them. And let the congregation go right on, see, like that, you haven't held them
     nowhere then. See?
     197 And then while... before... In a--in a few minutes, you say... If nobody comes,
     then say, "Would there be somebody that would like to be anointed with oil tonight,
     for sickness? We pray for the sick here."
     198 "Well, I'd like to see you privately, Brother Neville." "Well, you see me in the
     office. See one of the deacons, they'll take it up, see." "And I've got something I'd
     like to say to you, Brother." "Well, one of the deacons here will see you to the office,
     and we'll... I'll see you immediately after the service."
     199 "Now, we'll stand now for dismissing." See, and you haven't been over about
     a hour and forty-five minutes in the whole thing. See? See, a hour and thirty minutes,
     your service is over. You've had the little, quick punch; you--you give it what it's
     done; you've done it and everybody's satisfied, and go home feeling good. See? If
     you don't, then, you see, if you let... See, you--you--you mean well, see, but see...
     200 You know, this is about thirty-three years in this platform for me, thirty-three
     years, and the world around. You learn a little something in that much time, surely.
     See? If you don't, you better quit. So then, see, I find out this. Now, if you're dealing
     with just Saints altogether, man, you could just stay all night if you wanted to. But
     you're... See, you're not dealing with them exactly, you're trying to catch these out
     here. Here's the ones you're catching, you got to work on their field. See? And don't...
     Bring them in here and then let the Word come, and then, see, there's nothing can be
     complained. If there's anything they wants to see you about, well, fine, take them
     right on into the office like that, but don't hold the congregation.
     201      Then, you know, people will get up and say, "Well, I tell you, let's have a
     good testimony meeting." See? I don't mean any critics on this, I just mean to tell you
     the Truth. I mean to tell you the Truth. See? I've found testimony meetings of more...

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page123
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     they-
     -they do more harm sometimes than good. See, they really do.
     202 Now, if somebody would have a red-hot testimony in time of a revival, you
     know, you're having a revival on, you know, a meeting, and somebody got saved and
     just wanting to say a word, well, bless God, let him unload his soul. And see if he... If
     he wants to--if he wants to do that, see, just in time of revival, say, "I just want to say,
     'Thank the Lord for what He's done for me.' He saved me last week, and my heart's a-
     burning up with the glory of God. Thanks be to God," set down. Amen! That's fine,
     go on. See, that's all right.
     203 But when you say, "Now come on. Who's next? Who's next? Now let us hear
     a word, let us hear a word of testimony." Now, if you got a meeting set aside, a
     certain night for that, see, you're going to. "Tonight... next Wednesday night, instead
     of prayer meeting, it's going to be a testimony meeting. We want everybody to come
     in, and it's going to be testimonial meeting." And then when they come to--to the
     place to give testimonies, read the Word, have prayer, and then say, "Now, we have
     announced this is testimony night." So let people testify for that hour or forty-five
     minutes, or thirty minutes, or whatever it is, and then--then go ahead like that. See
     what I mean? And I think it will help your congregation, it'll help everything,
     altogether, if you do it that way.
     204       Now, as I'm getting late, so... Brother, brethren, these are the best of my
     knowledge. I see what's on your heart, this is the best of my knowledge the questions
     that you have asked. Now, from now on you know. And if it's ever in your mind,
     come to the tape. Ask that... Listen to the tape. If it's for deacons, trustees, or
     whatever it is, let the tape be played. Let it be played to the congregation out there if
     they want to hear it. All right. And that's--that is the best of my knowledge to the will
     of God for this tabernacle here at Eighth and Penn Street, and that's the way I'm
     commissioning you brothers to carry this out under the leadership of the Holy Spirit,
     with all kindness and love, showing your grace before people that you are Christians.
     And Christian don't mean a baby that can be pushed around anywhere, that means "a
     man that's full of love, but just--just as full of love for God as he is for the
     congregation." See what I mean?
     205      Is there a question? The tape's about to run out here, and I got somebody
     waiting for me over there. What time was he supposed to be there? [Billy Paul
     answers, "Right now."--Ed.] Right now. He's coming over himself? [Billy Paul
     answers, "I'll go get him."] All right. All right, sir.
     206 Now, I know we're going out now if there's no--no further any word. Huh?
     Now, if not, let's dismiss. Yeah. Yes, Brother Collins? [Brother Collins says, "Might
     be

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page124
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     better if the tape was turned off."--Ed.] All right. [Blank.spot.on.tape.]
     207       Well, brethren, I've appreciated being here with you tonight, and Brother
     Neville, and to the deacons, and trustees, and Sunday school superintendent, all of
     you. We trust that the Lord will help you now to carry out these orders for the
     Kingdom of God. The reason I have said this is because that I think you have grown
     from children to adults. When you was a child, you talked like a child, and you
     understood as a child. But now you're a man, so let's act as adults in the house of
     God, behaving ourself, and honoring our offices, and honoring every office. Every
     gift that the Lord has given us, let's put it in order, and honor God with our gifts and
     our offices. Let us pray.
     208      Heavenly Father, we thank Thee tonight for this gathering together of man
     that's put in the offices here to carry out the work of the Lord that's being carried on
     here in Jeffersonville in this church. God, may Your hand be upon them, may You
     help them and bless them. May the congregation and the people understand and know
     that this is to in-better the Kingdom of God, that we might become men of
     understanding and know the Spirit of God, and know what to do. Grant it, Father.
     Dismiss us now with Thy blessings, and may the Holy Spirit watch over us and guide
     us, and protect us, and may we be ever found faithful at the post of duty. In Jesus
     Christ's Name, I pray. Amen.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page125
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     GUIDELINES FOR DEACON DEPARTMENT
     POSITIONS

     These guidelines are an overview of the basic items needed to perform a reasonable
     ministry service. These guidelines could not possibly address every situation or
     event that may unexpectedly arise. Exceptions will have to be made at times. There
     are also some things that will be learned in the process of serving, or as part of “on
     the job training”.


     Every person serving God’s people within the department needs to:
     1. Dress with slacks, dress shirt, tie, dress shoes, with hair that is neatly groomed,
     and no facial hair (Recommendation is to wear a suit)
      2. Understand the application of the Deacon Manual especially pages 1-4, 76-83


     And must carry the following items:
          •    Two Way Radio with ear piece (Recommendation: Motorola Talkabouts).
          •    Name Tag.
          •    Three Tithing envelopes.
          •    Three Offering envelopes.
          •    Three Visitor Cards
          •    Two Elder Prayer Request Cards.
          •    Two Prayer Petition Cards.
          •    Three no chewing gum notes.
          •    A Pen and notepad.
          •    Breath mints (Life savers, Altoids, etc.).

     TEAM LEADER POSITIONS:


     Position #12—Sanctuary Leader:
     Position # 12 stands at the north side of the French doors. This individual ensures
     that all assistants within the sanctuary are executing their position according to the
     guidelines set forth in the Deacon Manual and teachings and that everything is under
     control be it in the sanctuary or in the service. Position 12 is responsible for ensuring

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page126
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     that all chairs are setup before service and removed after service. It is also your duty
     that everything displayed on the projection screens is accurate and on time. This
     position must also maintain the temperature by regulating the thermostats accordingly
     and change the filters once a month. Lights that are not working must be fixed or
     replaced. Everything within the sanctuary must be in proper working order. This
     position must work closely with Position 17 when dealing with the program. During
     an altar call this position must be at the forefront guiding other team members to be
     in position. This position must be aware where each Deaconess is sitting in the event
     their help is needed at the altar. Another important role of this position is to improve
     our “customer service” and maintain quality in our ministry of service. This may
     include training of other team members within the sanctuary; may require addressing
     serious issues within the sanctuary, and lead the team in creating an atmosphere of
     worship. This position should never leave the sanctuary unless they are on the
     program and someone is covering for them during their absence. This position
     must be manned at all times.


     Position #17—Program Leader:
     This position is the liaison between the back offices, vestibule, and the sanctuary. He
     is permitted to enter the sanctuary and back offices to make sure the program is
     executed correctly. This person is also responsible for completing the attendance
     worksheets for each service and checking that everyone is in their designated
     position. Position 17 will also be responsible for assigning deacons and ushers to
     positions when a certain deacon position was not scheduled for a particular service.


     Position #18— Parking Leader:
     This position is responsible for the safe keeping of the cones, flags, vest and
     flashlights. He is also required to assemble a team to guide traffic efficiently without
     any bottlenecking or traffic jams during exiting times. This position must also
     ensure that someone is directing traffic in the parking lot and at the parsonage. In
     addition, parking helpers are also security guards and must be vigilant of everything
     taking place in the sanctuary’s outer courts. Anyone serving in the parking areas
     must be familiar with the reserved parking spaces and know who has access to these
     spaces. They are to enforce that there are no left turns (turning west) on to Baseline
     and ensure that cones are set-up in a way to prevent cars from turning left. In
     situations where there is overflow parking onto 12th and 13th streets, a team member
     must make periodic patrols of these remote areas to deter theft and vandalism.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page127
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




     Position #22—Vestibule Leader:
     The vestibule area includes the foyer, restrooms, and the canopy area outside. This
     position ensures that everything in the sanctuary, restrooms, and vestibule is in place
     before the doors are opened. This includes checking that the lights in the entrance,
     restrooms and vestibule area are on (and working), and the translating system and
     headsets are ready; ensuring that headsets are returned and placed in their charging
     system and accounted for after service; that offering baskets are ready for use; that
     letters, flyers, calendars, tithing & offering envelopes, etc. are handed out at the
     designated time. The position is responsible for delivering all petitions and requests
     (elder’s prayer requests, child presentations, etc.) to the back office. All requests
     including petitions, thanksgiving, elder’s prayer requests and other
     miscellaneous requests must be timed and dated when the usher or deacon
     receives it. Do not send these requests to the back office unless you have put the
     time it was received. It also monitors the restrooms and makes sure they are
     operational, clean, and stocked with supplies throughout the service. This individual
     should periodically examine the restrooms for cleanliness and supplies. The vestibule
     leader must make sure visitors are welcomed either verbally before service or after
     service. Each visitor or visiting family should be given a visitor information card.
     The person in this position should be friendly and approachable. In addition, they
     should be vigilant of the parking lot and help those who need assistance into the
     sanctuary. They should go out and greet people in the parking lot who are visiting.
     We ultimately want to make visitors and non-visitors feel welcome by noticing and
     speaking to them with a warm, positive spirit.


     Position #23—Back Office & Program Coordinator:
     This position assumes many different responsibilities. It ensures that the original
     program remains unchanged unless the Pastor has approved a change beforehand. In
     taking this role, one must remember that changes should be judged as being either the
     perfect will or the permissive will of the pastor. An example of an unauthorized
     change occurs when a service does not start on time because the program has not
     been confirmed or is not ready. The only reason a service may start late is if the
     pastor is not yet present or if the pastor has given special instructions that the service
     can be delayed. Position 23 is also responsible for executing the program during the
     service. This may require him to enter the sanctuary repeatedly during a service in
     order to monitor strict adherence to the program. The main responsibility of this
     position is to ensure that the service program does not deviate from the original plan,

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page128
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     unless there are changes approved by the Pastor. Everyone on the program must be
     notified verbally before service and understand exactly what the Pastor expects of
     them. It is the responsibility of this individual to instruct everyone on the program of
     their responsibilities and time limitations. Any deviations from the original program
     will be addressed and corrected by Position 23 as it is his responsibility to speak to
     any individual who changes the program or address issues arising in the back offices.
      Items such as elder’s prayer, interpreters and such must be included on the program
     before it is distributed. This individual must make sure programs are up-to date and
     ready to be delivered on time. He then must deliver them no later than 15 minutes
     before service starts. He must also control or limit traffic in the back offices and exit
     doors. In addition, this position is responsible for the many facets of the Video and
     Audio Department and all back offices and rooms during service. Temperature
     regulation for the platform is another responsibility required of this position. This
     position oversees the work of Positions 1, 24, 25, and 26 and also communicates any
     changes in the program to the sound technician. Another responsibility is to take
     Elder’s attendance, gather submit Elders’ petitions and submit them to Brother Paul
     G. Garcia Jr.


     Position #1— Backdoor:
     This position is the gatekeeper to the back offices of the church. No one is permitted
     in the back offices unless they are on the program. Before you assume this post of
     duty, make sure that Position #23 gives you a program of the service. Individuals on
     the program are allowed to enter the back offices to get what they need but should
     leave the back offices unless they are next on the program. For example, the person
     that is going to pray to open the service will be permitted to stay in the back office
     closest to the platform door. However, the songleader who follows after the
     minister’s sermon should enter the back office before service to submit his songs and
     not linger in the back. Half way into the sermon he may then return to prepare
     himself to take the worship once the sermon is done. This is one of the main duties of
     Position 23 but Position 1 must help ensure that unauthorized individuals do not enter
     the back offices. As the gatekeeper to the back offices, you are not to open the door
     to gaze outdoors. The door must remain closed at all time unless you are given
     special instructions. Position 1 must also ensure that the sanctuary’s south doors
     (platform door and sanctuary door next to the organ) are closed at all times.


     NOTE
     Positions 1A-17, and 22 must understand how to enforce and apply church order to
     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page129
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     each situation while in their positions. A good example is using wisdom and
     discernment in a situation where there is a disturbance (visitor talking loudly, child
     running or crying, person chewing gum, etc.) while a deacon or usher is serving.
     Naturally the Word has preeminence and the disturbance must be addressed first, then
     the deacon may proceed with his routine duties.


     Positions 1A & 1B – Platform Area:
     These two positions keep things at the platform running smoothly. Their main
     responsibility is to assist those on the platform or at the altar. They are also
     responsible for the ceiling fans (checking that the bulbs and fans are operating),
     monitors, lighting, proper location of video cameras, and proper chair order on the
     platform. The area behind the pulpit should be free of chairs. There should be an
     open aisle from behind the pulpit all the way to the baptistery. These two individuals
     are also responsible for correcting obvious mistakes a songleader or minister makes
     such as guiding the people to take their seats if the song leader walked off the
     platform without seating the congregation. It is also the responsibility of these
     positions to go to the pulpit and ask the people to be seated. If the Minster takes his
     jacket off or requests his notes or Bible from the back office, it is their responsibility
     to help him out. These positions must also know the purpose and the proper use of
     each microphone.


     Purpose of Mics:
              • Tie Mic – used by the minister and the Pastor.
              • Lectern Mic – used by songleaders and by minister who request it. This
                mic is also used for the person baptizing. It can be disconnected from the
                pulpit and connected to the inside wall of the baptistery on the northern
                side, but not without informing the sound technician first.
              • Cordless Mic – used by special songs, songleaders, and ministers (used
                only when requested and in special situations such as baptism, child
                presentations, elder’s prayer, engagements, renewal of vows, presentations,
                and testimonies).
              • Interpreter’s Mic – is similar to the lectern mic (long black skinny mic) but
                it has its own stand. This is used solely for interpreters.
              • Mics with cords – are used for special songs where there are a group of
                singers and more than one mic is required. They are also used as a back-up
                when any of the other mics are not working properly.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page130
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              • Piano Mic – is used for special singers which will be singing and playing
                the piano.
              • Remember that every mic has a position and function. We must first
                check with the sound technician to avoid problems with the sound. If
                you are going to disconnect a mic from the system (such as the lectern
                mic on the pulpit) YOU MUST TELL THE SOUND TECH because
                the popping noise ruins the very delicate microphones.
              • Position 23 is responsible for communicating any changes that arise to the
                sound technician.

     Special Situations:
              • When we have a group of individuals singing such as the Choir, Rondalla,
                and children/youth, all mics will need to be used and set-up accordingly.
              • Always check with the Sound System Technician regarding the mics that
                can be used and where they should be positioned during the service
                (especially for special songs).

     Position 2 & 3 – Altar Deacons:
     Position 2 is the lead deacon and Position 3 is the assistant. These two positions play
     a vital role in eliminating any gaps in the program, which may result from delays in
     transition from one section of the program to another. They must be aware of their
     surroundings and attentive to the voice of the pastor. If something is out of order, the
     pastor will usually mention it verbally. It is very critical that these two positions
     receive a program at least 15 minutes before the service starts so they can prepare the
     mics for the songleaders, special songs, ministers and for anyone else on the program
     (missionary offering, child presentations, baptisms, family presentations, special
     prayers, and children department presentations). These positions need to work very
     closely with Positions 23 and 17 in executing the program and must be listening to
     the pastor’s voice to ensure they do exactly what he is requesting. Both positions are
     responsible for mic set-up and speaker monitor positions during the service. They
     are to ensure that the pulpit is in order by testing the pulpit lights, removing any
     papers from previous services, and making sure there are at least two bottles of water
     (for the songleader and minister) under the pulpit. If the bottled water is unopened it
     is then returned to the office for future use. These positions also maintain order when
     there is activity at the altar. The altar area includes the platform and everything east
     of them. For example, during the Elders’ prayer they are to have the mic and
     anointing oil ready. The mic must be hand-delivered to Brother Paul G. Garcia Jr. In

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page131
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     his absence, the mic is delivered to one of the two assistant pastors. If all three
     brothers are absent, the mic is given to the Administrator. During an altar call these
     two men must ensure that the ladies go to the north side of the altar and the men to
     the south side of the altar. When anyone comes to the altar it is preferred that they
     stand instead of kneel because of limited space. When the altar is full and people
     start to crowd the middle aisle, then it is the responsibility of Positions 2, 3, and 12 to
     ensure that the people form a line so the ministers, elders, deacons, and believers can
     pray for them. They also ensure that the instruments are ready to be played (organ is
     not closed, piano is open, chairs are available for guitarists, trumpeters, etc).


     These positions are stressful because they are performed openly before the people.
     Each mistake is magnified a hundred percent while correct decisions and actions are
     often overlooked. Unfortunately there is a very low tolerance for mistakes from
     these two positions. They must commend themselves to God and constantly be on
     their toes, strategizing and anticipating what their next step is. A word of caution:
     you can never be lax while serving in these positions. Refer to Mic uses above.


     Position 4 – Middle Aisle:
     This position is the mastermind of the seating arrangements. He is the quarterback of
     the team and oversees all the seating in the sanctuary. This position understands
     Positions 1A through 11, 13, 27 and 28. This position is the director of seating and
     requires the ability to multi-task, anticipate and strategize. Position 4 is directly
     responsible for seating people in rows 1 through 14 on the north and south side inner
     aisle for half of the pews. This position also helps out during any altar activities,
     assists in offering collection, and dismisses the people at the end of each service. The
     person in the middle aisle knows all the open spots in positions five through ten.
     This position should be familiar where each Deaconess is sitting during the service
     should they be needed during altar activities.


     Position 5 – Brother Paul’s Section: There are three reserved areas in this section:
     Brother Paul’s bench, Brother Johnny Alvarado & Family, and Sister Nati Alvarado
     (third row south-end of the bench). Be very careful who you give permission to sit in
     these reserved seats because there are more individuals than there is room. Someone
     will always be left out. This position must know who is permitted to seat in these
     reserved areas. Brother Paul’s immediate family has first priority to his bench.
     Others have traditionally sat in Brother Paul’s bench but this has never been officially

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page132
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     mandated by the Pastor. No one is allowed to sit in Brother Paul’s or Sister Mary’s
     seats when they are absent. Position 5 is responsible for the south east seating
     section of the altar, platform, half of the seating for rows one through four, and to
     guard the south door to the back offices. When Position 8 in not manned, then
     Position 5 assumes rows five and six.


     Position 6 – Brother Bernie’s Section:
     There are two reservations in this section: Brother Bernie’s bench and Brother Joshua
     O’Campo & family. Be very careful who you give permission to sit in these reserved
     seats because there are more individuals permitted to sit in these places than there is
     room. This position must know who is permitted to seat in these reserve areas.
     Brother Bernie’s family (sons and daughters) have first priority to his bench. Others
     are permitted to sit in Brother Bernie’s bench but it has never been officially
     mandated by the Pastor. No one is allowed to sit in Brother Bernie’s or Sister Lily’s
     seats when they are absent unless it is one of their sons. Position 6 is responsible for
     the North east seating section of the altar, platform, half of the seating for rows one
     through four, and guard the south door to the back offices. When Position 7 in not
     manned, then Position 6 assumes rows five and six.


     Position 7 – Mid Section – Pastor’s Side:
     This position is responsible for seating people in rows five, six, seven, and eight.
     They are only responsible for half of the rows. The other half corresponds to
     Position 4. This position takes an active part in collecting offering baskets.


     Position 8 – Mid Section – Bro. Paul’s Side:
     This position is responsible for seating people rows five, six, seven, and eight. They
     are only responsible for half of the rows. The other half corresponds to Position 4.
     This position also takes an active part in collecting offering baskets.


     Position 9 – North Side Exit:
     This position is responsible for seating people in rows nine, ten, eleven, twelve, and
     thirteen. They are only responsible for half of the rows. The other half corresponds
     to Position 4. This area has one reserved spot for Brother Lalo Ruiz and family on
     the last pew on the north-west corner. This position is responsible for manning the
     north side exit door and dismissing the people starting with Brother Lalo’s pew, then
     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page133
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     the additional seating, followed by rows eleven through six or until all the rows are
     dismissed. We dismiss the rows from a countdown position. Anytime we are asked
     to distribute literature after service, it is this person’s responsibility that everyone that
     walks through your door gets a copy.


     Position 10 – South Side Exit:
     This position is responsible for seating people in rows nine, ten, eleven, twelve, and
     thirteen. They are only responsible for half of the rows. The other half corresponds
     to Position 4. This position is responsible for manning the south side exit door and
     dismissing the people starting from row thirteen, followed by rows twelve through
     six or until all the rows are dismissed. We dismiss the rows from a countdown
     position. Anytime we are asked to distribute literature after service, it is this
     individual’s responsibility to distribute it as people exit.


     Position 11 – Additional Seating Section:
     This position is responsible for the entire row in the additional seating area. In a dual
     service format, the chairs will be set-up so there are two walk ways: on the north side
     and the south side of the additional seating area. The south side walk way allows
     individuals to use the side door to the vestibule. In a Sunday one-service format,
     there is only one walkway which is on the north side. The south side walkway will
     need to be filled with chairs and the door to the vestibule area will be inoperable.
     This position will play an active part in collecting the offering. Remember, we use
     the north wall for storing the folding chairs but during a service we use that storage
     space as an aisle which means that all the chairs that are not being used must be
     placed outside before we open the doors to the public.


     Position 13 - Gatekeeper to Sanctuary:
     This is a key position within the sanctuary. This person must eliminate long lines of
     people waiting to be seated which is not always easy since he depends on those in the
     sanctuary. He must work very closely with Positions 6 through 12. He must be able
     to multi-task and use Position 4 as his point of reference in seating everyone that
     comes through the doors. He must understand where each person can and cannot be
     seated. For example, this position should not send a sister to sit in the row of folding
     chairs in front of row one. It is also very critical that this person treat everyone that
     comes through the doors as a guest. He must be very careful to not send people when
     the other position is not expecting them or not ready to receive them. He must
     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page134
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     always be making contact with all positions within the sanctuary and scanning the
     rows for open seats. He must wear a genuine smile and treat people kindly as he tries
     to accommodate their needs. This position requires constant communication with the
     ushers, deacons, and everyone that comes through the door. For example, if he
     detains someone at the doors because there is no seat available, he must kindly
     communicate this to the individuals he is detaining.


     Positions 14 – 16 – Vestibule Section:
     These positions will assist the Team Leader in Position 22. They are responsible for
     delivering any verbal or written request to the back office. All requests including
     petitions, thanksgiving, elder’s prayer requests and other miscellaneous
     requests must be timed and dated when the usher or deacon receives it. Do not
     send these requests to the back office unless you have put the time it was
     received. They are not permitted to enter the back office unless they are under orders
     either by Brother Bernie, Brother Paul or the administrator. This position must guard
     against anyone parking in Brother Paul’s space, the Handicap space next his parking
     spot, and/or anyone parking near that area. Please ensure a cone is put in the
     handicap parking spot. This handicap parking spot is used only as a drop-off. They
     must also ensure that the exterior lights to the church are working. They are to assist
     Position 22 with the following vestibule duties:


     Position 22 - This position ensures that everything in the sanctuary, restrooms, and
     vestibule is in place before the doors are opened. This includes checking the
     translating system and headsets and making sure they are ready, that they are returned
     and placed in their charging system and accounted for after service; that offering
     baskets are ready for use; that letters, flyers, calendars, tithing & offering envelopes,
     etc. are handed out at the designated time. The position is responsible for delivering
     all petitions and requests (elder’s prayer requests, child presentations, etc.) to the
     back office. It also monitors the restrooms and makes sure they are operational,
     clean, and stocked throughout the service. This individual should periodically
     examine the restrooms for cleanliness and supplies. The vestibule area includes the
     foyer, restrooms, and the canopy area outside. The vestibule leader must make sure
     visitors are welcomed either verbally before service or after service. Each visitor or
     visiting family should be given a visitor information card. The person in this position
     should be friendly and approachable. In addition, they should be vigilant of the
     parking lot and help those who need assistance into the sanctuary. They should go
     out and greet people in the parking lot who are visiting. We ultimately want to make

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page135
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     them feel very welcome by noticing and speaking to them positively. After each
     service, we must pick up the trash in the restrooms and flush all toilets.


     Positions 19 – 21 – Parking Assistants:
     These positions will assist the Team Leader in Position 18. Please read Position 18’s
     responsibilities.


     Positions 24 – Liaison Between Back Office and Sanctuary:
     The major responsibility is to strengthen the lines of communications between the
     sanctuary and the back office functions. The first step in improving this link is to
     ensure every team leader has the most updated program. The next step is to
     communicate any program changes (or needs) to the sanctuary from the back offices
     and visa versa. This means that this individual must make sure petitions, elder’s
     prayer and announcement requests are submitted to the back office in a timely
     manner. This position is also responsible for ensuring that the tie mic is on before the
     minister leaves the back offices. This position will assume Position 23’s
     responsibilities and authority in his absence.


     Positions 25 & 26 – Back Office Assistants:
     These positions will assist the Team Leader in Position 23. Please read Position 23’s
     responsibilities.


              Program Confirmation the day of service – Positions 23, 24, 25, 26:
                   1. All songleader songs will be confirmed by Position 24 no matter where
                      they are fall on the program
                   2. All prayers (opening, prayer for petitions/offering, elder’s prayer, food
                      court, special prayers, dismissal and etc.) will be confirmed by Position
                      25.     This position will also confirm the person giving the
                      announcements. Knowing who is going to perform is not enough.
                      YOU must ensure that the person is in position to perform his duty.
                   3. All special singers will be confirmed by Position 26. This
                      responsibility includes every need relating to the singer or
                      poet/orator. For example, how many are singing in each special?
                      How many songs? How many mics are needed? Is a stand needed or a
                      chair? Are they singing with church musicians or do they have their
     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page136
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                       own band and what needs do they have? Are they singing with a CD?
                       Is the CD approved by Position 23? If the CD is approved, have you
                       delivered it to the sound system? If the CD was not approved what is
                       the next step? Do the deacons in the sanctuary know about each singer’s
                       need in order to sing their song?
                   4. All presentations and baptisms will be confirmed by Position 25. The
                       presentations include children, families, couples, engagements,
                       ministers, dedication of ministers, Pastor’s presentations. This also
                       includes confirming if the couple brought their rings when they are
                       renewing vows or being engaged. In addition, your responsibility is to
                       have a hard copy of the vows and child presentation scriptures in
                       Spanish and English ready for the minister. It is your duty to confirm
                       the needs of the minister too. This position is responsible for all aspects
                       of the baptismal service which includes confirming with the deacons,
                       notifying the deaconess for female baptisms, assigning changing areas
                       for men and for women, getting robes and towels ready, filling the
                       baptistery with water, filling the baptism form out, and finding out who
                       the Baptist and interpreter will be, and for laundering the baptismal
                       linens and returning them to the church. Position 23 is the back up to
                       ensure that everything is confirmed and ready to go.
                   5. All interpreters will be confirmed by Position 26 (Position 25 will
                       provide back-up). Segments of the program that may need an
                       interpreter may include prayers, presentations, baptisms, elder’s prayer,
                       welcomes, petitions, offerings, Children Department’s Report,
                       Announcements, Pastor’s presentations and Pastor’s Last Words, etc.
                       These positions will also confirm that the translating system is working
                       properly.
                   6. All offerings (regular, missionary, love, and special) will be confirmed
                       by Position 24.
                   7. Welcomes, thanksgiving, petitions, and announcement sheets will be
                       confirmed by Position 25 and reconfirmed by Position 26. This means
                       you are responsible for getting them typed correctly, submitting them
                       for approval and giving the final copy to those on the program.
                   8. Children’s Department report will be confirmed by Position 26.
                   9. Minister multimedia presentations will be reviewed and confirmed by
                       Position 23. A deck will be delivered to the Pastor, Bro. Paul G. Garcia
                       Jr., and the administrator.
                   10. Position 23 will ensure that the introduction for the interpreted message

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page137
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                       is recorded according to the preformatted standard. This will be
                       followed up by Position 24.
                   11. Offering baskets are in the hands of the deacons in the sanctuary,
                       minister is being attended will be confirmed by Position 24.
                   12. Position 25 will confirm the sound system prelude, live prelude, and the
                       musicians available to play the instruments.
                   13. Pulpit lights are to be confirmed as operational by Position 24. Position
                       23 will administer the turning on of pulpit lights.
                   14. It is everyone’s responsibility (Positions 23-26) to ensure that steps 1
                       through 12 are confirmed.
                   15. It does not matter how many other men are with our pastor, each
                       position must still do their assigned duty even if another person
                       accompanying our pastor may have already done it. (Example: Our
                       pastor’s assistant places the tie mic on him. The pastor then passes 4
                       men in position (23, 24, 25, 26) and reaches the pulpit with his mic off.
                        What went wrong? ) You must verify that your post is fulfilled. Do not
                       assume someone else has done your job without confirming this is so.
                       It is your commission to ensure all the steps are confirmed. It is
                       everyone’s responsibility to ensure that the mic is on before our
                       Pastor reaches the platform.
                   16. At the Pastor’s request, during the preaching of the Word, all office
                       personnel are to exit the back offices and enter the sanctuary to hear the
                       message. The only exception is made for those in the Video & Audio
                       Department and Position 23. It is preferred that the office personnel sit
                       on the platform but this requires our deacons and ushers to reserve them
                       a seat before service. Position 23 is responsible that everyone in the
                       back offices adheres to the pastor’s request.
                   17. Positions 1, 23, 24, 25 and 26 must communicate among themselves
                       things which have and have not been confirmed or any new changes
                       made to the program. This will eliminate double work/redundancy—
                       two people working on the same thing. For example, the pastor will
                       often make a request and then there will be two men working on the
                       same request creating double work for the secretary (printing/copying,
                       etc.) and then to produce two of the same thing twice for no reason.
                       Please communicate to avoid this misuse of scarce resources!
                   18. Always ensure that all information that is submitted to be typed is
                       verified with the original request.


     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page138
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              PLEASE NOTE: Confirmation means you have the person or items on
              the program ready to go to serve their function. For example, if a certain
              interpreter is on the program but not ready to go up with the songleader,
              then the interpreter has not be confirmed.


     Position 27 – BGG’s Assistant:
     This position will assist Brother Bernie with whatever he needs before, during and
     after service. This position requires the person to have a radio and to communicate
     any concerns, and movements of BGG so we can serve him better.


     Position 28 – PGG Jr.’s Assistant:
     This position will assist Brother Paul with whatever he needs before, during and after
     service. This position requires the person to have a radio and to communicate any
     concerns, and movements of PGG Jr. so we can serve him better.


     Position 29 – Video & Audio Assistant:
     This position will assist the team leader (TL) of the audio & video (A&V)
     department. This position will learn how to use all equipment in this department. His
     job responsibility will be assigned by the team leader of the A&V department. The
     TL will work very closely with the Administrator to ensure that deacons and ushers
     are receiving proper training. Each deacon must be trained to run this department.
     At a later time, they will also be trained to run the sound system.


     POINTS TO CONSIDER:


         • Always remember that only eleven adults fit on a pew.
         • When we are faced with extreme weather, no one should be standing outside
           waiting for the doors to be opened. Please ask all these individuals to enter the
           sanctuary quietly.
         • Once you have allowed a person to be seated in your area, do not ask them to
           move to another place unless you receive orders to do so.
         • Do not seat anyone on the platform or in the first three rows during the
           sermon.
         • Positions four through thirteen are required to pick up the translating headsets

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page139
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


           before service is dismissed.
         • Remember that the radios can be a blessing and a curse depending on how we
           use them.
         • When there are not enough elders to lay hands on the people, then it is the
           deacon department’s responsibility to help lay hands on them.
         • The logistics in seating should be a follows:
              • All folding chairs in front of row number one should be filled by single
                  men that are neatly groomed and dressed appropriately.
              • Rows two and four should be reserved for single ladies and ministers’
                  wives.
              • Rows five and six should be reserved for single men and/or couples.
              • Rows seven through nine should be reserved for families with teenage
                  children.
              • Rows ten and on should be reversed for families with small children
                  and babies that may need to exit the sanctuary frequently.

     OFFERING FORMAT:

     When we pick up an offering there must be two brothers positioned on the platform
     (Positions 1A & 1B) to gather the offering. One passes the offering baskets down the
     row while the other receives them on the other end. There will be two brothers
     (Positions 4 and 13) in the middle aisle in front of the pulpit to pass out offering
     baskets starting with all the rows of folding chairs in front of row one through rows
     six. Starting at row seven there will be another two brothers (Position 12 and 14)
     ready to pass out the offering baskets to rows seven through thirteen. Position 11
     will pick up the offering for the additional seating area. Position 15 will pick up the
     offering in the vestibule area. A deacon outside of Position 12 must walk all the
     offering baskets to the office. The deacon must use the south side aisle of the
     sanctuary when taking the offering to the office. He should never deliver the offering
     to the back office by using the outer courts. If the offering has to be delivered using
     the outer-courts then Positions 14 and 15 will escort (bodyguard) the deacon to the
     back office. Remember it is also the responsibility of the deacons to collect the
     offering from the back offices.


     BAPTISM FORMAT:

     When a baptism is performed we need to understand each position:
     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page140
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




         • The baptistery must be filled up before service starts and then drained
           immediately. We cannot leave water in the baptistery overnight. This poses a
           huge liability issue.
         • Baptism forms must be filled out and name tags made for each person being
           baptized. The name tag is posted right under the mic in the baptistery so the
           minister can read it as the next candidate is ready to be baptized.
         • Position 3 should open and close the curtain. Curtains should only be opened
           when the Program Coordinator (Position 23) gives the sign. Curtains should
           be closed immediately after a person has been baptized.
         • Position 2 should set the mic in the baptistery (mic comes from the pulpit) and

              ensure that the songleader, interpreter have mics too. This position must
              ensure that the curtains close properly. Under no circumstances should a
              person peek through the curtains once they are closed.
         •    The pulpit should never be moved unless direct orders are given by the
              pastor(s) or the administrator.
         •    The camera must be positioned in front of the baptistery and behind the pulpit
              so the baptism can be projected on the screens.
         •    If elders need to be moved, have them stand on the platform or along the south
              wall. They should not exit the platform to the back offices.
         •    Position 24 shall stand in the baptistery ensuring the person baptized is
              completely submerged under water. He will also radio a message to Position
              23 when to open the curtains.
         •    Position 25 will be standing in the northeast corner of the walkway of the back
              offices. He will control the traffic and relay any signs to Position 1. Position
              1 will directly report to Position 23 any signs he receives.
         •    The church has baptismal robes and towels for those who do not have a set of
              clothes to change into. Positions 23-26 will help allocate the robes and towels.
               If sisters are being baptized it is always recommended that we get an elder’s
              wife or deaconess to help us out with the sister’s needs during this time.
         •    Normally we allow the sisters to change in the interpreter’s room. The
              restroom and the pastor’s office are also available for changing.
         •    When sisters are baptized and need to walk to the restroom to change, the
              walkway should be clear of men as she is passing by.
         •    A minister should always speak to the person to be baptized before the event
              so the person knows the key elements of baptism and how to be properly

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page141
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


           baptized. The person(s) should know what the Baptist is going to do while he
           is in the water. (The person being baptized should put there hands together
           and bring them to their face. Then with their two thumbs they should gently
           squeeze their nose to prevent water from entering as they are submerged.
           They should relax and allow the minister to submerge them. Then on their
           way up out of the water they can help the Baptist by standing up so all the
           weight is not placed on the minister.)
         • The correct format for baptizing is to make a group prayer for all those that
           will be baptized. When the person is in the water the Baptist should say, “I
           baptize John Doe (person’s name) in the name of the Father, Son and the Holy
           Ghost which we know is the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the remission
           of sins and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost” or he can say, “I
           baptize John Doe (person’s name) in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the
           remission of sins and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.” At this
           point, their whole body should be submerged in water.
         • The scriptures we use for baptism is based upon Matthew 28:19 and Acts 2:38

         MATTHEW 28:19 Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the
         name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:


         ACTS 2:38 Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you
         in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift
         of the Holy Ghost.


     ELDER’S PRAYER:


     HEALING WHAT SICKNESS IS                                  CLEVELAND OH 50-0808
      E-10       Divine healing's in reach of every person, and every person that is a
     Christian has a right to pray for the sick. That's right. If there's any among you sick,
     call the elders. That's the deacons in your church. See? And then if they confess
     their faults one to another, and pray one for the other... Right there you are. And ask
     any man, any person... You don't have to wait till some Divine healing service comes
     into the city. That's not God's program. If you're sick, get some good Christian to
     help you pray, till you have faith in that prayer. That's it. And that's all. Call your
     pastor. That's what he's for, to come and pray with you. And if he's a godly
     man...'Course I believe that all true ministers are godly men. That's right. They're all

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page142
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     born again Christians. They're godly people. That's true. And every one of them has a
     perfect right...


      E-11 Now, there may be things that God has added to the church, which stimulate
     faith. But now, when I'm gone, healing isn't gone. Healing ought to be more than it
     was 'fore we come here. See, see? That's the purpose, is to get the people in their
     mind in the spirit of the latter days...We're in the latter day. You believe that? We are.
     The world is in the spirit of the latter days. But the church is not in the latter day
     Spirit yet. See? In other words, we may be in a...?... But God wants His church so in
     the Spirit, till they'll fit in just anywhere God were to lead them to. The latter days or
     rending of the world... My, my. Look at the places: eating, drinking, marrying, giving
     in marriage, and all the immorals there is in the world. The devil sent down his troops
     in the latter day spirit. But we ministers haven't got the church yet in that Spirit. And
     we must be in that condition in order to be caught away in the rapture when He come
     back...?... [Blank.spot.on.tape--Ed.]


     EXPECTATIONS                                                  LA CA 51-0507
       E-11 And you don't have to wait till somebody's got a healing campaign in town
     to be healed, because your pastor or your neighbor that's a Christian, anybody's got a
     right to pray for you. The Bible said, "Confess your faults one to another, and pray
     one for another that you might be healed. If there's any sick among you let them
     call the elders." Now, we call them in our groups, we call them the deacons. See?
     The... "Let them call the elders of the church, let them anoint them in oil." It's not call
     the "elder" but "the elders," plural, two or three. Where two or three are gathered
     together and agree and pray (See?), that's the way to do it. And after all, we're here to
     glorify our Lord Jesus Christ, His mercy and His goodness to us. And we're thankful
     for Him.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page143
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




         Usher Position Schedule
                             Position #                              Position Description
                                 1                                   Backdoor
                                1A                                   Platform South Side
                                1B                                   Platform North Side
                                 2                                   Altar area - lead position
                                 3                                   Altar area - assistant
                                 4                                   Middle Isle
                                 5                                   Bro Paul's Section
                                 6                                   Bro Bernie's Section
                                 7                                   Mid Section - Pastor side
                                 8                                   Mid Section - Bro Paul side
                                 9                                   North Side Exit
                                10                                   South Side Exit
                                11                                   Additional Seating Section
                                12                                   Team Leader for Sanctuary
                                13                                   Gatekeeper to Sanctuary
                                14                                   Vestibule
                                15                                   Vestibule
                                16                                   Vestibule
                                17                                   Team Leader for Program
                                18                                   Team Leader for Parking Area
                                19                                   Parking area
                                20                                   Parking area
                                21                                   Parking area
                                22                                   Team Leader for Vestibule
                                23                                   Program Coordinator - Back Office
                                24                                   Liaison Back Office
                                25                                   Back Office
                                26                                   Back Office
                                27                                   BGG
                                28                                   PGG Jr
                                29                                   Video Assistant
                                30+                                  Substitute




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page144
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                       2007


                                   Deacon Department Positions
                   23 & 24, 25, 26                    29                                           1


                                             1B                        1A

                                         2                             3
                                                                                                               Rows
           6                          BGG 27                      28 PGG Jr                        5             1

                   JO                                                                                            2

                                      EGB                                                                        3

                                                                                            JGA                  4


                                                      4                                                          5

                                                                                                                 6
           7                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                 7

                                                                                                                 8


                                                                                                                 9

                                     AGBJr                                                                       10

           9                                                                                      10             11

                   ER                                                                                            12

                                                    12            13                                             13
                                                                            Men
           11                                       14                            Restroom
                                                    15
                                                    16            22 Women

                                                    17
          Parking Area :       18 & 19-21                    Substitutes:         30 - 34
      RESERVE SITTING:
      BGG = Bernie G. Garcia                              PGG Jr. = Paul Garcia Jr.
      EGB = Ernie G. Borunda                              JGA = John G. Alvarado
      JO = Joshua O'Campo Sr.                             ER = Lalo Ruiz
      AGBJr. = Alex G. Borunda Jr.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                           Page145
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     SERVICE PROGRAM PROCEDURAL CHECKLIST
     The procedural checklist is a guide to ensure that everyone that is taking part and
     those that are a integral part of the service program are informed of the events during
     the service. This is a procedural checklist that is constantly changing.


     1.       The key to good administration is prayer, planning, organizing, and timing.
              The earlier you arrive to church the better prepared you will to be to handle all
              the opportunities that arise before, during, and after the service.
     2.       Stop by the office and get a update on the current events for the service. Get a
              service program. Know the original service program by memory.
     3.       No one is authorized to make any changes to the program and or to Phoenix
              Tabernacle unless the pastor approves of the changes before the changes are
              made. All changes (not limited to the program only) need to be questioned as
              to who authorized the change. If the Pastor did not authorize it, then speak to
              the Pastor or the Administrator about the unauthorized change(s).
     4.       In order to assure ourselves of a good service, we need to make sure that the
              personnel for each department are in their post of duty. Make the rounds to
              each department and speak to the person in charge to see if they are
              experiencing any difficulties. This can only be accomplished if number 1 is
              strictly adhered to.
     5.       Help set-up video equipment in the room and in the sanctuary. Make sure that
              the person(s) recording the audio test the translating system from the video
              room and the sanctuary to the translating room. Help troubleshoot the
              problem if they are having problems. Make sure everything is plugged in.
              Have the translator come to the room 5 minutes before the minister starts
              speaking so that we can do a final test of the system.
     6.       Brief the Pastor on the status of the service before the service starts. Then
              listen very closely for any changes, additions, instructions and or insights.
     7.       Make sure that any changes, additions and etc. from the Pastor is
              communicated to the Administrator, the assistants and the areas that are
              affected by the changes. This will eliminate getting gunned down by friendly
              fire.
     8.       Have everyone that is on the program come to the back to speak to
              Administrator and or the assistants to the Administrator so that we can inform
              them of their part and any changes in the service that affect them. Give them a
              copy of the program.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page146
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     9.       Service needs to start on time. Record the time duration of each part so that
              we know where we stand.
     10.      Make sure that everyone on the program is advised of their time limit. If they
              go over the allotted time set by the Pastor, bring it to their attention in a wise
              and subtle manner. Be very careful in your approach when you are dealing
              with the people especially elders or others that hold an office in the church.
     11.      On Sunday Morning, assist the Spanish, English ministers, and interpreters
              with making copies, transparencies, special song of introduction, water, tie-tac
              mic, mics, title of message, opening scriptures for the Video Department and
              etc. A copy of all transparencies should be made and given to the elders
              sitting on the platform. Make sure they are made aware of their time limit set
              by the Pastor.
     12.      All song directors need to bring in the songs that they are going to sing so that
              we can type them on the program. Try to get all the songs on the program
              before the programs are delivered to all the departments. Make sure a copy of
              all the songs that are used on the transparency machine are given to the Elders
              on the platform.
     13.      Copies of the program should be given to all the departments by the
              administration personnel, especially the Music (piano & organ) and Children
              Department.
     14.      A copy of the program, bulletin, transparencies and etc should be given to Bro.
              Bernie G. Garcia and Bro. Paul G. Garcia Jr.
     15.      There are several things we need to know from the special singers: (1) who is
              singing with them, (2) are they singing with a sound track or musicians and are
              the musicians sing with them (3) do they need help with a music stand and etc.
               If they are singing with a sound track make sure that it is approved by the
              Pastor before they are given permission to sing (see Administration Personnel
              guidelines). From this information, we can determine how many mics will be
              needed. The sound system personnel and the altar deacons need to know this
              information so that the confusion about mics are eliminated. The first special
              singer needs to know the last song that the song director will sing so that the
              singer(s) and the mic(s) are in position before the song leader finishes his last
              song. Remind the song leader to continue sing the song until the singers are
              ready to sing.
     16.      All petitions, elder prayers and announcements need to be typed in English and
              Spanish and read in a uniform manner according to the Administration
              Personnel guidelines. A copy of the petitions and the announcements need to
              be read by the Administration and given to the Pastor before the director reads

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page147
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              them from the platform. Remember on the announcements, we are not to
              announce any kind of meeting after church service unless it is an emergency
              and the Pastor has authorized it. All regular meetings should be delegated thru
              and by the Pastor (note: Administration Personnel guidelines).
     17.      Before the minister=s allotted time runs out open the door to the platform as a
              sign that he has 5 minutes left. If there are souls at the altar, make sure that
              the elders pray over them. One of the administrators needs to come out into
              the sanctuary and be ready to act at the Pastor=s command. Administrators,
              please avoid walking north and south on the platform repeatedly. This causes
              distraction and appears on our video recording.
     18.      Make sure that the worship director after the message understands his role,
              when, and what he needs to accomplish. For example, elders prayer, souls at
              the altar that have not been prayer for, baptisms, presentations, last words from
              the Pastor and etc. If a soul requested prayer from the elders but was prayed
              for at the altar during the worship, then we will not have the elders pray for
              that person again.
     19.      The announcements are to be short and simple. Make sure that the person
              giving the announcements understands that it is not the time to give a short
              sermon, small stories, or recap the message that the minister spoke about,
              personal thoughts and etc. Just have them give the announcements.
     20.      Things to plan for and add to the program if they are not there:
              A.      Child presentations & baptisms around the 15th of every month.
              B.      Missionary offering is gathered on the last Sunday of every month.
              C.      Special singers, video presentations, excerpts of cassette messages and
                      etc.
     21.      For child presentations, make sure that a form is filled out for every child. Let
              the director of the deacons know when the presentation will take place. Make
              sure that the child to be presented is in the sanctuary and not in the children
              department before the message finishes. The Pastor wants to eliminate the
              minister presenting the children from preaching a sermon. We must help him
              accomplish this task.
     22.      Concerning the baptisms, a form must be filled out for each person. The
              filling of the baptism should be done before service starts. It is permitted to
              fill the baptistery during the worship service only but is not recommended.
              Call on brother and sister Carrillo to assist you with clothing, towels,
              preparing the individuals, cleaning & filling the baptistery and etc. The
              director of the deacons and the altar deacons need to know the number of
              baptisms and when they will take place on the program. 15 minutes before

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page148
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              the minister finishes his message, have the minister baptizing, the individuals
              wanting Christian baptism come to the back to get prepared. We need to have
              a good relay from the back so that we can let the altar deacons know when to
              open the curtains. The Pastor wants to eliminate the minister baptizing from
              preaching a sermon. We must help him accomplish this task.
     23.      Never assume that the persons on the program know that they are on the
              program. ALWAYS confirm it in person by one of the administrators. Do not
              have someone else confirm our post of duty. Make sure that they understand
              their part.
     24.      Remember that what you expect of others when they are on the program is
              expected of you when you are on the program. We must practice what we
              preach. We need to set the example.
     25.      The monitors are a good indicator of viewing any unusual activity taking place
              in the sanctuary. Keep your eyes opened. Are the people fanning themselves?
               Could it be that the A/C are too high or too low? Are their people still at the
              altar? Is someone in need of assistance? Have the Video Department pan the
              audience. Remember you must be prepared to act.
     26.      Never take any ill type of behavior, words spoken to you personal. Any
              contrary action that is manifested while performing your post of duty is a
              direct attack upon the Pastor. They are not coming against you. They are
              going against the Pastor. It is the Pastor that set up the program. We only try
              to abide by it. It is very easy to take things personal but refrain from doing so
              because it will drag you into a pit of mud.
     27.      A service report should be completed and submitted to the Pastor no latter than
              Monday unless there are emergency issues that need to be communicated
              ASAP. Use Godly wisdom in determining the severity of the issue.
     28.      All traffic to the back offices should come to a complete halt during the
              preaching of the Word of God unless it is an emergency.
     29.      We must maintain order in the back offices at all times. The back offices are
              part of the sanctuary. We must be reverent in the back offices at all times.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page149
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                    Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.                                                             BACK-OFFICE
                                                                                                          POSITION
                            Service                                                                    RESPONSIBILITIES

              Sound System Prelude (?? Minutes)
              Live Prelude ( ?? Minutes)                                  Position: 25 / 23
              Opening Prayer:                                             Position: 25
              (Interpreter:???)                                           Position: 26
              _______________________________________________________________________
                                                                          Position: 24
              Worship Director and Songs: ( ?? Minutes)
              _______________________________________________________________________

              Testimonies ( ?? Minutes Each)      C/O Bro. ???                                      Position: 26
              1. Sister:          2. Brother:               3. Sister:
                                                                          Position: 26
              (Interpreter: ???)
                                                                          Position: 26
              _____________________________________________________________________
              Special Songs:     1. (2 Song - Guitars) 4. Choir
                           2. (Soundtrack) 5. Poems
                                                                                Position: 26 & 23
                           3. (Piano)              6. Out of town guests
              _______________________________________________________________________
              Welcome, Thanksgivings, Petitions, Announcements, Sheet:                              Position: 25 / 26
              Song Director and Songs:                                                              Position: 24
              Interpreters: available interpreters for this section                                 Position: 26
              (Prayer for Petitions & Offering: )                                                   Position: 25
              Child Or Family Presentations                                                         Position: 25
              Baptisms                                                                              Position: 25 / 23

              Minister: (mic and special needs)
                                                                                                    Position: 23
              Recording of Interpretation:                                                          Position: 23
              Interpreters: (for this section)                                                      Position: 26
              Altar Call Special Prayers                                                            Position: 25

              Worship Director and Songs:                                     Position: 24
              Elder’s Attendance Sheet                                        Position: 23
              Elder’s Prayer                                                  Position: 25
              Missionary, Special, Love, All Offerings picked up in a Service Position: 24
              Special Presentations: Engagements, Ordinations, Pastor & etc.  Position: 25
              (Interpreter for this section: ???)                             Position: 26
              _______________________________________________________________________
              Sunday School Report:                                           Position: 26
              (Interpreter: ???)                                              Position: 26
              Announcements & Dismiss:                                        Position: 25 / 26
              (Interpreter: ???)                                              Position: 26
              (Prayer for Dismissal: )
                                                                              Position: 25
              Director and Song to Dismiss:
                                                                                                    Position: 24



     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                  Everything should Page150
                                    be confirmed by Position 23
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     COMMUNION PROCEDURES
     The following items below are to be used as a guideline for the deacons in serving
     communion at Phoenix Tabernacle.

     If a deacon cannot attend the communion service and/or take communion, they must
     contact the Assistant Pastor of the Deacons / Administrator and give their reason(s).
     Remember that the office of a Deacon requires a high standard of living. For a
     deacon to have true communion with God, they need to: 1 service the sanctuary, 2
     help serve communion and 3 then partake of the bread and wine. Holy Communion
     is a service that a deacon should never miss.

     Communion is normally served within the sanctuary to all. Foot washing, however,
     is segregated into two groups: men and women. Foot-washing is performed in the
     sanctuary for ladies. Men perform it in the Voice of Restoration (VOR) building.
     The wine and bread are made ready for the service in the Pastor=s Office. Normally,
     this is where our Pastor has his foot- washing.


         1. At least a couple of days before our Communion service, a deacon should
            contact Brother Eleazar Ruiz about obtaining access to the Voice of
            Restoration building a few hours before service so the basins can be filled with
            water and the chairs set-up. This is not Brother Ruiz’s responsibility. We
            need to protect and help him by taking care of it.

         2. Normally, Elder Joshua and Sister Margarita Ocampo bake the bread for
            communion and have the wine ready. A deacon should always confirm one
            week in advance that they will be baking the bread and have enough wine on
            hand to serve communion. Usually, the Secretary of Phoenix Tabernacle, will
            buy more wine if needed. The wine we use is made by the orthodox Jews and
            the label has a Jewish priest. This wine is made to celebrate the Passover and it
            can be purchased at Fry’s grocery store.

         3. Four deacons must arrive at the church at least 2 hours before service starts to
            prepare the foot-washing basins for service. This includes cleaning the basins,
            filling them up with water and setting up with chairs in the sanctuary and the
            Voice of Restoration. Normally, we use the extra seating room in the back of
            the church along with the last pew on the south-west part of the church for

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page151
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              foot-washing. Basins filled with water and placed underneath the pew.
              Within that extra room, the chairs and basins are set-up in a square formation
              allowing everyone seated in the chairs to see each other. In the Voice of
              Restoration building, the chair and basin arrangement can vary depending on
              what items are in Voice of Restoration building at that time.

         4. The sanctuary should be set up so that there are no folding chairs in the isles,
            no chairs in the altar area and only one row of folding chairs on the platform.
            On the platform, there should be only twelve chairs centered behind the pulpit
            along the back wall. There should also be a small table with a table cloth to be
            used for the wine and bread trays.

         5. The doors of the sanctuary should be opened 30 minutes before service starts.
            However, if there are individuals that come early and want to pray at the altar,
            they should be permitted to enter the sanctuary. Once the person finishes
            praying, they should find a seat in the pews and be reverent. If they are
            walking around, please have them sit or wait outside until we open the doors.

         6. The deacons should ensure that the sanctuary is presentable and that all
            restrooms are clean and stocked with supplies. Our members should never
            have to tell the deacons that the restrooms are out of supplies (toilet paper,
            towels, and soap).

         7. Every deacon should be assigned a post. The three doors to the back offices
            should especially be guarded. During communion service the two doors to the
            back offices should not be used outside of those brothers helping serve
            communion.

         8. During the special songs, there must be no clapping by the audience. The
            service program should be reviewed for special songs and our Video
            Department should be notified that a multimedia announcement should be
            displayed stating there is no clapping after a singer sings their song (Please
            refrain from clapping after special songs).

         9. The back office library is closed during the communion service since and no
            offering is picked up during this service. Therefore, no one should be entering
            the back unless they are part of the communion program. Outside of the those
            ministers, elders and deacons elected to help serve communion, everyone else

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page152
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              that is on the program should be attended to and then asked to enter the
              sanctuary. No one is to be loitering in the back offices.

         10. The Administrator usually selects four elders to help serve the bread and the
             wine per our Senior Pastor’s request. The ministers that will be taking part in
             the service along with the fours elders should gather in the Pastor=s Office to
             pray over the bread and wine before the service starts. Then they should break
             the bread to ensure that the pieces of bread are enough for the number of
             people in attendance. Normally, the Administrator will oversee this and
             ensure we have enough to cover those in attendance. When the service starts,
             our Senior Pastor prefers that all ministers, elders, songleaders, interpreters
             taking part in the program walk out onto the platform together and sit in the
             folding chairs. Once everyone is seated on the platform, the first one on the
             program walks to the pulpit.

         11. A deacon should ensure that the Sound Technician has tested all the mics
             including the tie mic. Do not assume that he has done it. Please ask him and
             then report your findings to the Administrator. Please ensure that new
             batteries are used for the cordless mics.

         12. The service program should be reviewed for possible areas that will need an
             interpreter. Then ensure that the program states who will be performing the
             interpretation. Please be on the lookout for new items on the program and
             make the adjustments.

         13. To serve communion a total of four elders, four deacons are needed. Two
             elders serve the bread and two elders serve the wine. Two deacons hold trash
             bags for the empty wine cup discard, one deacon watches to see when the
             elders are running out of bread and wine and another deacons bring out more
             wine and bread from the Pastor’s office.

         14. Normally, when the Senior Pastor (or the one he puts in charge of the
             Communion service) performs communion and usher it in, he contacts the
             Administrator before service starts as to how he will want communion served
             to him and when the deacons should start ushering the people to take
             communion. During the service, the Administrator is watching the Senior
             Pastor for the signal when to usher in communion. Then the Administrator
             radio=s the deacons in position to usher in communion. The deacons do not

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page153
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              make a move until the Administrator has given the OK. When the Senior
              Pastor puts one of our ministers in charge of communion, then this information
              needs to be gathered as to how and when communion will be ushered in. Will
              the minister in charge (assuming he will be at the pulpit), walk down and go
              through the line or will he want a deacon to come and serve him communion at
              the pulpit? Next we will need to know when the people will be ushered to
              take communion.

         15. The Video Department should have all the scriptures in English and Spanish
             ready to project on the screen when they come due on the program. Any other
             items which need to be projected besides the scriptures and songs will need to
             be addressed as soon as possible before the deacons open the doors to the
             public.

         16. Special request during communion service should be brought to the
             Administrator.

         17. The standard format for ushering in communion will be the elders serving the
             bread stand one foot in front of the first step of the altar and at the beginning
             of the first pew. Then the elders serving the wine are suppose to be parallel
             and at least 4 to 5 feet away from the elder serving the bread. Next, the
             deacons holding the trash bags should be parallel and 3 to 4 feet away from the
             elder serving the wine. The goal is to keep the line moving and the deacons
             will ensure it takes place. As the people take their bread and eat it they
             continue forward and take the wine and drink it walking towards the deacon at
             the end with the trash bags to deposit their empty wine cup. The deacons in
             the end positions show the people back to their seat. Everyone that is taking
             communion and is in service should go through the line. No one is allowed to
             take communion in the Pastor’s Office during our service.

         18. The Administrator will give the order to dismiss the people to take
             communion. For communion, we dismiss the people the same way we would
             dismiss the congregation once a service has ended. The only difference is that
             for communion we dismiss towards the altar area and once they have taken
             part of the bread and wine they return to their seat by entering their pew from
             the opposite side that they exited.

         19. No one is permitted in the Pastor’s Office during communion service outside

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page154
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              of those ministers and elders serving communion. This is a problem do to the
              fact that we have different individuals entering this room at different times
              during the service. A deacon will need to stand guard to ensure that no one is
              permitted in the office outside of the ministry serving communion (Elders and
              Deacons).

         20. When everyone has taken communion, then four deacons or elders will help
             serve the bread and wine to the four elders that served communion to the
             congregation.

         21. Once everyone has taken the communion, the leftover bread and wine is
             returned to the Pastor’s Office. The room is then vacated for the Senior Pastor
             and Elder Joshua Ocampo. The elders that served communion should exit the
             church and head towards the Voice of Restoration Building for the foot-
             washing. A deacon will need to stand guard at the Pastor’s Office to ensure no
             one enters the room while foot-washing is taking place. Please ensure that the
             door is closed because we do not want the sisters or the young men coming out
             of the Video room to look in.

         22. Before we dismiss the men for foot-washing, a deacon will need to ensure that
             the Sound Technician puts on instrumental music before he leaves the
             sanctuary and the deacon will need to notify the piano player so she is not
             playing throughout the foot-washing. What usually happens is the piano
             player stays playing the piano throughout foot-washing and by the time
             everyone is finished there is no one left to participate in the foot-washing with
             the piano player. Therefore, we need to ensure that prelude music is played
             during the foot-washing so everyone has the same opportunity to participate.

         23. Once the men are dismissed for the foot-washing, the deacons will ensure that
             every man in the sanctuary leaves through the south-west door of the
             sanctuary. We do not want musicians exiting the doors to the back offices.

         24. Once every man is out of the sanctuary, two to three deacons will need to
             stand guard outside the south-west and west-end double doors to ensure that
             no man re-enters the sanctuary while the sisters are foot-washing. Be very
             sober that the deacon at the south-east door (entrance to the back offices) does
             not let anyone through his door especially ministers that forgot something in
             the sanctuary.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page155
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007



         25. After the foot-washing is completed, the deacons will empty the basins that are
             in the sanctuary and VOR. Then they will leave them outside to dry. The
             following day, a deacon will need to gather all the buckets and store them in
             the church Supply Room.

         26. The Administrator will select two to three deacons to dispose of the leftover
             bread according to the scripture. The bread is usually burned toward the south
             end of the property away from the sight of the traffic that is on Baseline road.

     COMMUNION BREAD RECIPE

     Ingredients:

     Water             have about 1 cup to work with
     2 cups            Unleavened Whole wheat flour
     1 tsp             Olive oil

     Preheat oven to 300 degrees.

     Place flour into a mixing bowl, begin adding water to moisten the flour. Add
     olive oil. Continue adding water to the mixture until the dough is a not sticky and
     can be hand stretched. Add flour as needed if dough is sticky or water as needed
     to get the right consistency.

     Place the dough onto a cookie sheet and stretch into a triangular shape. The dough
     should be about ¾ inch high. Bake for 15-25 minutes. Keep a close eye on dough
     as the bread should not be too dry or uncooked.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page156
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     COMMUNION SERVICE

     Brethren, to be able to help you in your duties as Deacons or Ushers, we have put
     together a list of items that should take place before the Communion Service. We
     trust that this will be a help to you in serving God’s people.

         1. In the Pastors office, there needs to be two Elders preparing the wine and
             bread for our Communion Service.
         2. One deacon needs will need to observe wine trays in the sanctuary for
             replenishing when needed.
         3. One Deacon to usher the rows, another Deacon standing in front, directing
             the people to the deacons standing at the side. Then when the brethren as a
             group are done taking the bread and wine, then the side deacons, will
             dismiss the brethren to their places.
         4. A table needs to be placed on platform w/ tablecloth for bread and wine.
         5. Front chairs need to be removed, also the guitar and amplifier.
         6. Service will be recorded and videotape.
         7. Former cry room, chairs need to be removed and placed accordingly with
             washtubs for foot washing for the sisters.
         8. In the Ramada, chairs and tubs need to be in place for the brothers.
         9. There needs to be two tubs and chairs in Pastors office.
         10. No chairs down the middle aisle.
         11. No offering will be picked up during the Communion Service.
         12. Interpretation shall be done in side room or on platform.
         13. There should be someone to stand in, for the minister and the musicians
             when they are partaking of the Lord’s Supper.
         14. Minister or Song Leader needs to communicate w/ video department on
             songs. Verses, chorus, ECT… They need to be in sync (together).
         15. Deacons need to be at church, One hour before the doors are opened, to
             prepare for the service.

     We trust that this has been a help to you. May God bless you for your faithfulness
     in serving His people.
     Administrator




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page157
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     COMMUNION SIGN UP SHEET:
     Please complete these forms 36 hours before the communion service:
     Submit a copy to pastor, administrator, church office.
     DEACONS                                      DEACONS IN TRAINING
     1                                            1
     2                                            2
     3                                            3
     4                                            4
     5                                            5
     6                                            6
     7                                            7
     8                                            8
     9                                            9
     10                                           10
     11                                           11
     12                                           12
     VIDEO DEPARTMENT
     1                                            5
     2                                            6
     3                                            7
     4
     SOUND SYSTEM
     1
     2
     MUSIC DEPARTMENT
     1                                            5
     2                                            6
     3                                            7
     4

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page158
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     FUNERAL PROCEDURES


              ADMINSTRATION

         1 The goal of Phoenix Tabernacle is to assist and comfort all the bereaved,
           especially during the funeral services. Although our established procedures
           must be adhered to, we should also seek the input of the family by means of
           their spokesman. The pastor desires to give the family priority during the
           funeral service especially with the order of the program. It is important to
           keep in mind that it is the family’s funeral.

         2 It is imperative, first of all, to find out who will be the family’s spokesman. It
           will usually be someone in the family.

         3 Changes can occur at the family’s request with the pastor’s written approval.
           Once the program is made we must diligently adhere to it.

         4 Administrative assistants must be very careful to not assume anything.
           Assuming is usurping authority. Every procedure must be verified with the
           pastor but with the family’s interest in mind. For example: Two elders or
           deacons should stand beside the coffin but they will not be assigned until the
           family’s spokesman is asked whom they prefer. Once this information is
           obtained, it must be communicated to the Pastor for approval. If the family
           does not have anyone in mind, we should follow the standard procedure.
           Lastly, all parties’ involved must be informed who will be the attendants near
           the coffin.

         5 Upon notice of a funeral, a special group of 14 deacons must be selected to
           help during each funeral service (viewing, interment and burial). Verify who
           will be helping in the video, sound and music departments. Make a list of
           helpers for each service and fax a copy to the pastor, administrator and church
           office.

         6 Each deacon assisting with the service is required to be at the sanctuary or
           funeral home one hour before the service starts.
     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page159
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




         7 It is very critical that all deacons, ushers, elders participating, sound system
           technicians, video & audio groups etc know the order of the service and what
           is needed from each group. It is the responsibility of the administration team
           to inform each group of their duties and ensure each department understands
           what is expected of them. Delivering a program to them will not suffice.

         8 All services must be bilingual from beginning to end unless family specifically
           request one language. The interpreter’s name should be written on the
           program before it is distributed. As a general rule, poems, songs, and
           multimedia presentations will not be interpreted.

         9 Please study and memorize the program. Scrutinize it and look for anything
           out of the ordinary. There may be new things, which we normally do not do
           (playing a video, etc). If there is a question regarding any part of the program
           make sure it is answered before the service starts. Communicate and verify all
           items on the program with the pastor, administrator, administrative team,
           individuals on the program, family’s spokesman, deacons, sound technicians
           & video department, etc.

         10 Ask the funeral home attendant what time they need to take the coffin. Make
            sure the program allows sufficient time for this transition. Bring any concerns
            to the administrator and/or pastor.

         11 All announcements and dismissal instructions shall be put in writing. This
            should then be submitted to the pastor for review before dismissal. Once the
            pastor approves it, nothing should be added or taken away unless the pastor re-
            approves it. We must ensure that we are all in one accord.

         12 The administrative team helping inside the sanctuary will be assigned to a
            specific post inside sanctuary (not in the vestibule area). This will enable us to
            have quality control at all times while observing how each deacon performs at
            his post during the service.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page160
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


         13 There must be a meeting of the minds within the administration team to
            discuss the service format from top to bottom. We must be united and act as
            one. Communication must go both ways.

         14 If you are assigned a task or a project (programming A/C, specials, etc),
            always make sure you communicate the status or progress of the task or
            project you were given.

         15 Do not assume anything. Always “drill down” to the source of each issue / or
            program item. When you delegate a task or project make sure that you follow
            through and get feedback. Do not assume the task will get done. Follow up
            and follow through. Doing this will ensure that gaps are closed and mistakes
            are covered. Do not be afraid to ask that person to repeat the instructions you
            have given him. It helps to confirm they understood your request.

         16 Many mistakes can be avoided if we give and provide feedback, follow
            through and “drill down.” Remember that the pastor suffers the reproach for
            our mistakes.



              SANCTUARY

         1 The altar area must be cleared of all chairs.

         2 All chairs on the platform area must be removed with the exception of the last
           row next to the drapes unless other instructions have been given.

         3 Deacons must know who the pal bearers are.

         4 Two individuals will stand next to the coffin (one on each end of the coffin).
           Two individuals may be selected from the following groups: Elders, deacons,
           ministry or family members. Once the selection is complete submit it to the
           Pastor for approval. No one is to stand next to the coffin until the Pastor has
           approved the selection.



     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page161
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


         5 Reserved seating will be permitted for the bereaved family, the Pastor and his
           wife, and Mr. & Mrs. Paul G. Garcia Jr.

         6 Find someone who knows the family and use them as a point of reference
           when seating the people. If we do not have a deacon who knows the family,
           ask one of the family members to help in the vestibule area to help us identify
           the family members.

         7 If a deacon arrives late and still wishes to help, he will be assigned to a non-
           critical position, otherwise it will take too long to bring latecomers up to speed
           with the latest developments.

         8 Musicians should be encouraged to play something softly during the reading
           of the obituary, poems, and prayers.

         9 Deacons must ensure that the translating headsets are functioning and ready to
           be handed to the people before the doors open. Headsets should be given even
           if the program does not specifically state that earphone interpretation is
           needed.

         10 The family should arrange flowers to their liking, however, in the event that
            the family does not do this, the deacons are responsible for arranging them.
            Keep in mind we do not want to block the walkways with flowers. Flowers
            are not permitted on top of any instruments. No exceptions.

         11 Usually the Funeral Home director will ask us the following questions: Are
            the flowers to remain in the church after the memorial service or are they
            suppose to take them back to the funeral home? They prefer that that flowers
            stay in the church because they usually do not have room in the hearse to fit all
            the flowers. The flowers usually get smashed when they are put in the hearse.
             We need to know the family’s desire regarding the flowers. If the flowers are
            to remain in the church overnight, then we need to ensure that the temperature
            in the church does not get any higher than 77 degrees.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page162
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


         12 Ensure that all the lights are working in the sanctuary, outside lights and that
            the whole church is clean and ready for service.

         13 Ensure that the A/Cs’ are set to cool the building 8 hours before service starts
            if they will be needed.

         14 The signing of the guest book is on a 1st come basis. We strongly recommend
            that this be done outside near the entrance of the church before the service
            starts. The guest book will be closed once the line is very long (>30 persons)
            and/or 10 minutes before the service starts. As an option, the guest book
            attendant can ask for family names and quickly sign them in.

         15 Everyone that attends the services should receive a funeral leaflet.

         16 Usually chairs will not be used in the walkways except in the middle aisle
            unless it is stated beforehand. Chairs will be permitted in the vestibule area.
            We must remember we are conducting a funeral service and our goal is to not
            overcrowd the building. Do not be afraid to offer standing room once all seats
            are taken. We want it to be a comfortable experience for our guests.

         17 Two deacons will be responsible for all platform and altar area needs. They
            will stand on the platform near the steps.

         18 Three deacons will be positioned on either side of the church (3 on the north
            side and 3 on the south side).

         19 Doors on the south and north side of the sanctuary should not to be opened
            except by the administration team or the pastor. For example, if a family
            member needs an escort to enter the church, the deacons must communicate
            this to the administration team so room is made for their entry. We prefer that
            people come through the front entrance. The elderly or individuals in
            wheelchair should be assisted into the sanctuary. If you have a question
            regarding this, ask the administration team before taking matters in your own
            hands.



     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page163
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


         20 Two deacons will be needed at the double doors, one in the vestibule and one
            outside. Deacons or deacons in training with the less than 6 months training
            should not be placed to serve in the sanctuary. Instead they should to be
            assigned to the vestibule area or to stand with a deacon in the sanctuary. Only
            the administrator or the pastor will grant exceptions.

         21 One deacon will be needed to guard the door in the back offices and one will
            help us in the middle aisle. A deacon at the French doors will help usher the
            people. One administration team/deacon will stand opposite the deacon at the
            French doors to monitor the deacons and observe the order in the sanctuary.

         22 If a task has been assigned to someone else, please try to be helpful to that
            individual. Pitch in and help them accomplish it.

         23 Deacons must ensure that every individual on the program is notified and sent
            to the back office upon arrival to the church.

         24 Remember that the family is always given time and privacy at the end of the
            service to be with their loved one. This means that all non-family members
            are dismissed out of the church; doors are closed as deacons stand guard.

         25 The order of dismissal is a very critical part of our service. The person
            performing the announcements and dismissal and the deacons must be in one
            accord with the pastor and the program. There is no room for assumptions
            (see Administration section #15). People will be permitted to view the body
            but not to offer their condolences to the family in the sanctuary. Use tact,
            wisdom and meekness to help guests understand the order. Standard
            procedures for dismissal are: (1) Deacons will dismiss the people using the
            outer passageways of the sanctuary starting on the south side of the church
            directing them east along the south side wall to the altar area. Then at the altar
            a deacon will direct them north towards the coffin. Another deacon on the
            north side of the sanctuary will direct them west along the north side- wall.
            Finally a deacon will exit them out of the sanctuary using the north side door.
            Keep in mind that no one is to sit in the empty seats once we have dismissed
            that row (2) no one is to be dismissed down the middle aisle of the sanctuary



     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page164
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


              (except the elderly who have a hard time walking). (3) two deacons are to be
              stationed in the middle aisle along side of the partition of the first pew. They
              are to ensure that no one is greeting or offering condolences to the family or
              wanting to exit using the middle aisle (4) Dismiss the people from the back
              first. Starting with the last pew on the south side of the sanctuary, this will
              open up the passageway, second the vestibule area, third anyone outside, then
              the north side seating addition (x-cry room), next the all the pews except the
              family, then the platform and personnel in the offices. The line must
              constantly be moving as if we were serving communion. No gaps are
              permitted in the line. It is the responsibility of every deacon to prevent them.
              As long as the casket is open we will follow the above dismissal format unless
              the Pastor has written order to change the dismissal format.

         26 NOTICE, when we have a closed casket service the order of our dismissal
            changes. We will dismiss everyone from the sanctuary. We will use the north
            and south side door of the sanctuary to dismiss the people just as we do it for a
            regular service except dismissal will not be done through the middle aisle.
            Deacons will be stationed in the middle aisle to ensure that no one gets up and
            makes their way to the front. The vestibule will be dismissed at the same time
            that we dismissed the north and south side doors.

         27 During the dismissal, the family is not to get up to view the body until
            everyone is dismissed. If the family makes their way to the body, one of the
            senior deacons will have ask them to remain seated until we exit everyone out
            of the sanctuary. Out of respect for the family, we must exit everyone out to
            the sanctuary and give the family time to view the body alone. The deacons are
            to keep order during this time. At that time the musicians may stop playing if
            they wish and the sound system technician should be ready to play soft
            instrumental sacred music. Make sure this is in place before service starts. If
            family members completely lose their composure, deacons should gently assist
            them in exiting the sanctuary before they faint. You may want to have family
            member help them too.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page165
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




         PARKING LOT

         1 On the day of the Internment Service the administration team deacons will
           assign four to five men to help in the parking lot. This must all be discussed,
           planned and assigned prior to the Internment service.

         2 These men will need to be at the church at least 1-½ hours before service starts
           or before individuals start parking their cars.

         3 These same deacons will direct the people to park their cars correctly and to
           direct the order of dismissal from the parking lot after the hearse drives off.

         4 The pastor’s car must be parked in section #1 closest to the hearse but after
           family limousines. Reserve the parking spot with a red cone until the pastor’s
           car is brought to the church parking lot. If the Pastor’s car is not brought into
           church parking lot, please go to his house and offer your assistance.

         5 It is very important that those ministers and individuals which will be taking
           part in the gravesite service be one of the first ones to leave the parking lot but
           only after the hearse, family, and the pastor.

         6 We will need at least 6 red-cone flashlights and 6 parking cones.

         7 These deacons will need to have 2 way radios.

         8 All cars will be parked with the front end ready to exit. This means that the
           back end will be put into the parking space first. The parking spots in the
           center of the pavement parking will be facing west instead of east as they
           normally do for a regular service. In the south dirt parking lot (next to VOR
           building), all cars will face west and parked in rows facing west. In the west
           side parking lot, all cars should be parked so they can exit quickly and
           smoothly.



     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page166
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




         9    The order of dismissal from the parking lots is as follows:



                                                     2                       5
                   Church
                                                                                         South-end
                                                                                       6 Parking
                            1                                                                Lot




                            3




                            4




                                        7                West-side Parking Lot




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                            Page167
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007



     GRAVESITE

         1 Gravesite preparation must be done days in advance.

         2 There should be a gravesite program. Most of the time it is not written but it
           would be to your benefit to write it. If it is not written them memorize all the
           steps in the gravesite section and plan for them.

         3 Deacons must be assigned to direct cars on how to park at the gravesite and
           how to exit. This may require that the deacons go to the gravesite a day or so
           before the actual day of the internment service. They should devise a plan to
           park the cars and to allow an orderly exit. Communicate this plan to the
           Administrator.

         4 Deacons will be assigned to direct the people where to stand at the gravesite.
           They must understand who will be sitting in the chairs reserved for the family.
            Most times there is not enough room for all the family to sit. Ask the
           spokesman who will be sitting in the family section at the gravesite.

         5 Deacons will need to know the gravesite program, and be able to identify the
           pal bearers. Prepare them to bring the coffin out once the pastor has given the
           order. This should take place once all the immediate family, pal bearers and
           ministries are ready. Open up a passageway for them. We must ensure the
           pal bearers are on time. Usually the ministry will walk in front of the coffin as
           the pal bearers carry it to the gravesite. The ministry usually recites Psalms 23
           as the coffin is brought out of the hearse and places at the gravesite. Deacons
           need to know which ministers will participate and make sure they are in their
           positions on time. The administration team must ensure with the pastor which
           ministers will be helping us. Then communicate this information to the
           deacons helping at the gravesite. Deacons need to know where the ministry
           will stand at the gravesite. We prefer they stand behind or next to the one
           officiating the service. The trio/Rondalla should have a place reserved close
           to the one directing the service too.

         6 Deacons must ensure that children do not get near the coffin at the gravesite.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page168
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


         7 Deacons should have at least two 10-gallon water dispensers with water,
           disposable cups and two trashcans.

         8 We must always have a trio or Rondalla of guitars at the gravesite ready to
           play as the people approach the gravesite and during the gravesite service.

         9 Deacons must know who the gravesite songleader will be. If you do not know
           who that person is, get some songs ready because you just might be called
           upon to songlead.

         10 A Deacon must be assigned to take at least 10-20 folding chairs to the
            gravesite for our elderly and for special needs that may arise.

         11 We must have a video crew ready to record the gravesite services beginning
            with a view of the cemetery entrance, the hearse and people arriving at the
            gravesite. Views of the service and along with those attending should also be
            captured.

         12 Make sure the video crew, deacons helping at the gravesite (with parking, the
            water, and seating) and trio/Rondalla are sent to the gravesite a minimum of
            one hour before the church service ends. Church deacons will have to
            communicate via the radios to inform the deacons at the gravesite the order of
            the ministry and pal bearers in the line of in-coming cars.

         13 Deacons should have at least 10 umbrellas at the gravesite to provide
            protection for the needy. Do not forget to collect them after the service and
            return them to the church office.

         14 Those helping at the gravesite must know where the nearest restroom is
            located.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page169
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                      FUNERAL CHECKLIST

                                    Who is the family’s spokesman?
                                    Who is the point of contact helping the deacons sit the family?
                                    Do you know who the Pal bearers are?
                                    Does the program have interpreters?
                                    Are the deacons, administration, pastor, family and the people
                                          making the announcements informed about the order of
                                          dismissal?
                                    Have the special songs been confirmed with the pastor and
                                          details communicated to the singers, sound technician, video
                                          department, etc?
                                    Do you know the special needs of the family?
                                    Is there a guest book? Who is running it and what are their
                                          needs?
                                    Are all the lights working and A/C turned on at least 8 hours
                                          before?
                                    Are the earphones ready to go and the translating system tested?
                                    Has the parking lot dismissal been communicated and assigned?
                                    Have the gravesite details been taken care of: parking, video,
                                          music, ministry, water, umbrellas, songleader, and etc?
                                    Do you know which family members will be sitting in the chairs
                                          at the gravesite?
                                    Has a deacon been assigned to take extra chairs to the gravesite for
                                          our Elderly and those with special needs?
                                    Have the sign-in sheets for all services been submitted to the Pastor
                                          and the administrator?
                                    Have you communicated your checklist results with the
                                          Administrator and the administrative team?




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page170
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     PLANNING A FUNERAL


     ANNOUNCEMENT OF DEATH

         • The senior pastor will appoint a spokesman of the church to meet with the
           family upon the death of the loved one to gather all the details regarding the
           role the church will play in the funeral. This spokesman will determine
           what level of service will be provided by the church. The role the church
           plays depends on the needs of the love one’s family. The role of the church
           can be on of financial assistance in funeral cost, providing the church
           building for services, handling service program arrangements and
           everything that is required to run a service, providing housing for out of
           town family and friends, providing transportation needs such as to the
           airport, providing food to help feed relatives and friends before and after
           the funeral services, spiritual support and counseling during and after the
           funeral and much more.

         • Funerals require the planning of many details. In most cases, these details
           are so overwhelming to the family they seek the help of the church to plan
           these details out. There are times when the church is requested to handle
           the funeral arrangements with the funeral home.

         • The following is a list of things one could ask (keep in mind: has the
           family already made arrangement with the funeral home before your visit?):


                  a. What role will the church play in the funeral?
                  b. How many services are requested?
                  c. Will the services take place at the church or the funeral home?
                  d. Where will be the gravesite?
                  e. Will housing or transportation be needed for out of town family
                     members?
                  f. Who are the pal-bearers?


     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page171
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007



                  g. Will the body stay overnight in the church or will it be returned to the
                     funeral home. If the body stays in the church overnight, then who
                     will be staying with the deceased?

     PLANNING THE SERVICE PROGRAM

         1. One of the most important aspects of a funeral is the planning of the
            services. Each part must include a time limit to ensure the church operates
            under the time constraints that the family has contracted with the funeral
            home. This is very important because fees are based upon certain time
            frames and going beyond those stated times could incur additional fees to
            the family.

         2. The death of a love one is a very emotional time for the family of the
            deceased. Due to the grieving process the family member who is setting up
            the funeral arrangement might not realize all the details of the funeral
            contract and what effects it has on the role the church who is offering
            assistances. Many times these details are not communicated to the church
            spokesperson. These details usually have an impact of the service program.

         3. When an interpreter is used in the services, each time section on the
            program is doubled. For example, when a person is given five minutes on
            reflection the time is now ten minutes if an interpreter is used.

         4. In planning a service program, time buffers must be built into the program.
             Time buffers are gaps in the program such as the time it takes for one
            person to step down from the pulpit to the next person starting their part.
            Plus it also includes time overages where a person might go a few minutes
            beyond the time limit. A good service program accounts for these buffers.
            For every hour of service, ten minutes is needed as a time buffer.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page172
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007



         5. Timing of different sections on the programs:

     Sections of a Service                       Time Limit without                   Time Limit with
                                                 Interpreter                          Interpreter
     Prayers                                     2-3 minutes                          4-6 minutes
     Song (special or congregational) 5 minutes
     Poems                                       5 minutes
     Reflection (1)                              3-5 minutes                          6-10 minutes
     Special Words                               5 minutes                            10 minutes
     Multimedia Presentation                     5 minutes
     Messages                                    15 minutes                           30 minutes
     Announcements                               3-5 minutes                          6-10 minutes
     Time Buffer                                 10 minutes                           10 minutes
            TOTAL TIME:                          58 minutes                           86 minutes


         6. The person must limit themselves to one memory when asked to perform
            the “Reflection” part of a service. This memory must be short enough to
            communicate within a three minute time frame which with an interpreter it
            would be a total of six minutes. If the goal is five minutes total time on a
            reflection with an interpreter, then a person should be given three minutes.

         7. Usually there are three services: Memorial, Interment, and Gravesite.

     MEMORIAL SERVICE

         8. This service is usually set for the evening.

         9. It is imperative that you know when the body will arrive at the church so
            the planning the service can be scheduled. To ensure a successful program
            the body should be arriving at the church around 6:00 to 6:30 PM and the
            service starting around 7 PM.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page173
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




         10. The length of time for this service should be planned around 45 to 50
             minutes maximum with a ten minute buffer. This format will ensure a total
             service time will be around 60 minutes.

         11. Memorial services usually last two hours: one hour service, 25 minutes to
             usher in the people and dismiss, 35 to 40 minutes of family time.

         12. Normally, a funeral home expectations are the following:

                  a. If they are to take the body back, they like to have it back by 9:00
                     PM.
                  b. What are they suppose to do with the flowers after the service. They
                     prefer that they stay in the church since they do not have room in the
                     hearse.
                  c. The length of service and when will they will be called to take the
                     body back.

         13. Dismissal usually runs around 15 to 20 minutes during the memorial
            service. If the people in the line are stopping to offer their condolences
            then the time to dismiss will take two to three times as long. The family of
            the deceased must understand this before the service.

         14. Family time usually runs around 15 to 30 minutes before and after the
            service when the services are held at the church. This all depends on when
            the funeral home was contracted to bring and take the body and when the
            service starts and ends. When the service is held at the funeral home they
            usually have around an hour with the deceased.

         15. The person elected to give the announcements and dismiss must cover the
             following items:

                  a. Thank all individuals for their attendance on behalf of the family.
                  b. Announce times and locations of the interment and gravesite
                     services.


     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page174
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                  c. Order of viewing the deceased (dismissal order).
                  d. Due to time constraints, request the people from offering their
                     condolences to the family.
                  e. Short prayer to close the service.

         16. Pallbearers are needed to escort the body back to the hearse.

         INTERNMENT SERVICE

         17. This service is usually set for 10 AM and should end before or at 11:00
             AM.

         18. A 35-45 minute service should be scheduled to ensure everyone is
             dismissed and in their cars by 11:00AM. Ten minutes is needed to dismiss
             and ten minutes for the family to view the deceased for the last time.

         19. The body usually is delivered around 9:30AM. This type of format only
             allows 15 minutes of family time and 15 minutes to seat the general public.

         20. If the family wants more time with the deceased then they need to set this
             up before the contract for services is signed.

         21. Normally, the funeral home estimates one hour service and depending
             where the gravesite is at they estimate travel time. This is very critical
             since most funeral homes perform more than one funeral a day and the
             escort service (from the church to the gravesite) is an independent company
             from the funeral home. The escort service run on a time schedule and will
             leave if the service extends beyond their contracted begin time which means
             we will be without the services of the escort.

         22. The funeral home usually will estimate how long it will take to get to the
             gravesite from the church and will contract the escort service for a certain
             time period. For example, funeral homes estimate 25-35 minutes travel
             time to the Rest-haven gravesite located at 42nd street and Southern. For
             every mile figure around 5 to 7 minutes travel time.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page175
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




         23. The general public normally does not view the deceased. Upon dismissal
             they are exited out of the building and instructed to go to their cars to be
             part of the funeral procession. This process takes around 10 ten minutes.

         24. The person elected to give the announcements and dismiss must cover the
             following items:

                  a. Thank all individuals for their attendance on behalf of the family.
                  b. Announce the locations of the gravesite service.
                  c. Dismissal order in the church and out in the parking lot.
                  d. Short prayer to close the service.

         25. Pallbearers are needed to escort the body back to the hearse.

     GRAVESITE SERVICE

         26. The gravesite service last around 15-30 minutes. The service includes a
             few songs, one or two speakers, a song and closing (dismissal order).

         27. Pallbearers are needed to escort the body to the gravesite.

         28. A list of ministers should be made to help walk the deceased from the
             hearse to the gravesite. They should be made aware of the scripture
             reference of Psalms 23.

         29. All those individuals on the program should be walking along with the
             ministers in #26.

         30. Video recording must me scheduled and communicated.


         31. Music must be scheduled and communicated. Music should be playing
             from the time the hearse arrives to the end of the dismissal of the people.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page176
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


         32. In planning this service, one must consider the weather and make the
             necessary accommodations for the people. For example, Phoenix extreme
             summer temperatures require the set-up of water booths, umbrellas, and
             chairs for the elderly and handicap. Chairs are needed if the service runs on
             the long side.

     HELPING ATTEND THE FAMILY

         33. One of the best ways the church can show their support to the family is by
             organizing several families to bring food to the family of the deceased
             especially before the funeral service begins and throughout the funeral
             services. Normally family and relatives are in town for three days.
             Planning to have food delivered for three to four days would be ideal.

         34. Appointing someone from the church to make contact with the family’s
             spokesperson to see if they need help in anything.




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page177
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     FUNERALVIEWING SERVICE SIGN UP SHEET:
     Please complete these forms 36 hours before the communion service:
     Submit a copy to pastor, administrator, church office.
     DEACONS                                      DEACONS IN TRAINING
     1                                            1
     2                                            2
     3                                            3
     4                                            4
     5                                            5
     6                                            6
     7                                            7
     8                                            8
     9                                            9
     10                                           10
     11                                           11
     12                                           12
     VIDEO DEPARTMENT
     1                                            5
     2                                            6
     3                                            7
     4
     SOUND SYSTEM
     1
     2
     MUSIC DEPARTMENT
     1                                            5
     2                                            6
     3                                            7
     4

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page178
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     FUNERAL INTERNMENT SERVICE SIGN UP SHEET:
     Please complete these forms 36 hours before the communion service:
     Submit a copy to pastor, administrator, church office.
     DEACONS                                      DEACONS IN TRAINING
     1                                            1
     2                                            2
     3                                            3
     4                                            4
     5                                            5
     6                                            6
     7                                            7
     8                                            8
     9                                            9
     10                                           10
     11                                           11
     12                                           12
     VIDEO DEPARTMENT
     1                                            5
     2                                            6
     3                                            7
     4
     SOUND SYSTEM
     1
     2
     MUSIC DEPARTMENT
     1                                            5
     2                                            6
     3                                            7
     4

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page179
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     FUNERAL GRAVESITE SERVICE SIGN UP SHEET:
     Please complete these forms 36 hours before the communion service:
     Submit a copy to pastor, administrator, church office.
     DEACONS                                      DEACONS IN TRAINING
     1                                            1
     2                                            2
     3                                            3
     4                                            4
     5                                            5
     6                                            6
     7                                            7
     8                                            8
     9                                            9
     10                                           10
     11                                           11
     12                                           12
     VIDEO DEPARTMENT
     1                                            5
     2                                            6
     3                                            7
     4
     SOUND SYSTEM
     1
     2
     MUSIC DEPARTMENT
     1                                            5
     2                                            6
     3                                            7
     4

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page180
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


      COUNSELING CODE OF CONDUCT
     COUNSEL 7k/n$s!l8
       n. counseil < L consilium (for base see CONSULT); confused in ME with COUNCIL6
         1        a mutual exchange of ideas, opinions, etc.; discussion and deliberation
         2        a) advice resulting from such an exchange b) any advice
         3         a) a lawyer or group of lawyers giving advice about legal matters and representing clients
                 in court b) anyone whose advice is sought; consultant
         4        [Archaic] intention or resolution; purpose
         5        [Archaic] wisdom or judgment
         6        [Obs.] a confidential idea, plan, etc.; secret
       vt. -seled or -selled, -sel[ing or -sel[ling
             [           [            [        [




         1        to give advice to; advise
         2        to urge the acceptance of (an action, plan, etc.); recommend
       vi. to give or take advice
     —SYN ADVISE, LAWYER
     keep one's own counsel to keep one's thoughts, plans, etc. to oneself
     take counsel to discuss and deliberate; exchange advice, opinions, etc.
     Webster’s New World Dictionary




          1. A Counseling Form will need to be filled out for each counseling session and
             submitted to Pastor Bernie G. Garcia, Brother Paul G. Garcia Jr. and the
             Administrator within 48 to 72 hours.

          2. In filling out the Counseling form, please try to be brief and concise stating
             factual information only and not assumptions. Fill out the form from the
             perspective of an arbitrator.

          3. Please be cognoscente during the counseling session of the day of week, time
             and your surroundings especially if counseling session is in the counselee’s
             home. Only extreme emergencies should a counseling session go beyond 9:30
             PM.



     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page181
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007



         4. Counseling cases should not be transferred to another counselor unless the
            Pastor has approves it.

         5. Every counselor of Phoenix Tabernacle is under oath of confidentially of what
            the counselees share in their counseling session. These matters are not to be
            discussed amongst your peers, associates and families.

         6. And the pastor should never take sides in the meeting, by saying there is one
            group is this way and one that way. The pastor should stand between both of
            them, and go to them, and get them reconciled, immediately. And if he can't
            get them reconciled, let him take a deacon with him. And then if they're--they
            won't hear neither pastor nor deacon, then it should be told to the church, and,
            as Jesus said, "Let them be unto you as a heathen and a publican." "And
            whatever you bind on earth," said Jesus, "I will bind in Heaven, and what you
            loose on earth, I will loose in Heaven." CHURCH ORDER JEFF. IN COD SUPPLEMENT 58-1006

         7. The pastor has requested that submissions of your reports and miscellaneous
            communications should be sent to Brother Paul G. Garcia so that he can ensure
            that the work is being completed in the most effective and efficient manner.
            Then Bro. Paul will communicate all activity to the pastor.

         8. As a counselor of Phoenix Tabernacle, we are intercessors in every case we
            counsel. We are not their judge nor do we seek to implant justice. We are
            intercessor interceding on behalf of the counselees to the Lord Jesus Christ.
            Our desire is to reconcile individuals back to the Father so they may be
            restored.

         9.   They're sorry for their sins. And I am praying sincerely as a--as a intercessor,
              as one who loves them, as a minister of the Gospel, who would pray for those
              who are needy. I pray that You'll expel off of the--the book, every sin that they
              have committed. May it be gone, and may the great ink remover of the Blood
              of the Lord Jesus clean every page tonight. BLIND BARTIMAEUS PHOENIX AZ 57-
              0301




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page182
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


         10. I'm your brother, standing as your brother, an intercessor, trying my best to
             hold you before God. And I'm standing here right before the white throne now,
             and is taking that--pointing my finger at that bloody Sacrifice there, and
             speaking through His Name that it's done. It has to happen, and it has to
             happen. You know it's happened. I know it's happened, so do you know it's
             happened, and it's so. That's right. Amen. PERFECT FAITH JEFF. IN V-6 N-11 63-0825E

     CONFLICT

     1. The majority of the case we deal with at Phoenix Tabernacle deal with some type
        of conflict. Conflict is a fact of life. It is through conflict that God begins to
        work on us. Conflict is not the problem, but our reaction to them. If conflicts are
        left unresolved and buried, they will hinder our growth.

     2. Below are some helpful tips to share with those going through conflict.

     3. What causes conflicts? Power struggles, in effective communication, finances, In
        laws, children, different goals, selfness.

     4. JAMES 4:1 ¶ From whence come wars and fightings (conflicts) among you?
        come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members? 2 Ye lust, and
        have not: ye kill, and desire to have, and cannot obtain: ye fight and war, yet ye
        have not, because ye ask not. 3 Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss,
        that ye may consume it upon your lusts.

     5. ROMANS 12:10 Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in
        honour preferring one another;

     6. An individual has 5 choices in dealing with conflict.

         Withdraw – Physically and/or mentally removed

         Win – do everything to win the argument / conflict


         Yield – give in for the sake of peace (not a good way to handle conflict).
     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page183
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




         Compromise – making deals – giving a little so a person can do what he/she
           wants.

         Resolving – to find God’s provided way in dealing with the current conflict.

     7. When dealing with couples that have conflict each person must learn how to
        listen. If you transpose the word L-I-S-T-E-N, you will find it creates S-I-L-E-N-
        T. A person must learn how to listen by being silent.

     8. JAMES 1:19 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear,
        slow to speak, slow to wrath:

     9. PROVERBS 18:13 He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly
        and shame unto him.

     10. E-52 And then Moses just chucked full of church theology... He was to be the
        next pharaoh. And we find him still not knowing God. But one morning on the
        back side of the desert, an old man of eighty years old, his whiskers hanging way
        down low, he seen a burning bush, and he turned aside to see what was going on.
        And when he got near the bush he heard a voice. God had to quieten him for
        forty years before He could ever speak to him. And we won't stay quiet ten
        minutes so God could speak to us with all the rumble and bumble we have of this
        day. And yet, Moses after forty years stood there, and in the presence of that bush
        and that one voice that called him, He knew more about God in five minutes after
        that, than all the eighty years of training had taught him. It made a different man
        out of him. It'll make a different man and woman out of you if you'll just stand still
        long enough to hear His voice. E-53 Like Samuel did, stand still. Don't be
        excited. If you want something of God, ask Him, then stand still and listen to
        see what He's going say about it. Just open up your heart, say, "What about it,
        Lord Jesus?" Just stay there. If He doesn't answer the first five hours, then wait
        another. If He doesn't answer today then He will answer tomorrow. If He doesn't
        answer this week, He will answer next week. Stay there till He answers. Hear His
        voice speak back in your heart, and say, "Yes, I'm the Lord that healeth thee."




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page184
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


         Then it's all over; you get settled then. See? "I'm the Lord Who forgives all thy
         sins. Now, go and sin no more. I don't condemn you." Then you can go free.
         You're all right. But you want to be sure that you hear that voice speak. Moses
         heard it. He was a changed man.              HEAR HIS VOICE JEFF. IN 58-1005M


     11. Resolving a conflict once it has surfaced requires knowing when is the right time.

     JOHN 5:19 Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you,
     The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things
     soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.


     PROVERBS 15:23 A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken
     in due season, how good is it!


     12. A conflict must be defined. (1) Both parties must refrain from using the you
         message (pointing the finger syndrome), and must use we or our in their message.
          (2) The use of always and never in conflicts sends both parties farther away from
         reconciliation. (3) Couples must learn to attack the conflict not the person. It is
         not doctrine that separates a person but the spirit. A minister is called to preach
         against sin not against a person.

         Now, the Old Testament is a type of the new, while I was typing it together.
         Today, spiritual Israel done the very same mistake that natural Israel did. And
         when they come up to the real place... (you're past the school of theology out
         there)... just exactly like they did: Exodus 19. They can't accept it. If it does, the
         organization cuts them out. I have ministers before me today, fine men... The
         Assemblies of God is one of my great supporters. The Church of God support it.
         The Foursquare support it. The Oneness support it. The Twoness support it. The
         United Pentecostal support it. The Pentecostal Holiness support it. And some of
         the finest Christian ministers there is on the face of the earth is in them
         organizations. I don't pull any punches with those brothers. They're my brothers
         and they're men of God. But the system, not the men, not the people, but the
         systems, winds them around and separates them from other brothers. They cannot
         do this when the system that they're under won't permit them to do it. That's what
         I'm against brethren. I wouldn't want you to misunderstand. I know that that's
         God's truth, and I know the thing has to die. Every type, shadow, and even the
         Scripture itself proves it. ABRAHAM'S GRACE COVENANT MIDDLETOWN.OH 61-0317
     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page185
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     …Like, I was talking to a fellow over getting after me about hitting the
     denominations. I ain't got nothing against the people in them denominations. It's
     that system I'm hitting at…          RESUMING_ CLEVELAND TN 62-0408



     But then when man begin to sin he separated himself from his fellowship with his
     Maker. Sin is what separates him. As that--that's the truth which we believe it is. The
     Bible only speaks the truth. And if that's the truth, then if there is some preparation
     made for sin, then man through that preparation can come back in perfect fellowship
     and harmony with his Maker again. You believe it? That's right. We can only find
     the way. That's... We want to find the remedy. FELLOWSHIP THROUGH RECONCILIATION
     MACON GA 55-0605


     But, brother, when you come to that place that you're dead and raised with Him in
     resurrection, you love your brother, your sister. There's no denomination can break
     that barrier. You are Christians, and you're one in Christ Jesus, whether you're
     Presbyterian, Methodist, Baptist, or whatever you may be; and see Him moving
     among us. That's right. Amen. See what our denominations get us? A bunch of
     tommyrot. Separates our fellowship, breaks the barriers, puts the people under
     pressure, and everything, trying to fight for an organization. It's going to die and
     perish. It don't have to die; it's already dead. It was dead to begin with. LETTING OFF
     THE PRESSURE          GREEN LAKE WI 62-0518


     Now, instead of accepting the way that God vindicates to be truth, the way that God
     Himself moves upon the scene and saying, "This is it. These signs shall follow them
     that believe. I'll be with you, even in you. A little while, and the world won't see Me
     no more; yet you'll see Me, for I'll be with you even in you." See, the world, you...
     "The world won't see Me, but you will," See? "Cain won't see Me, but you will, Abel."
     You see? Because it's the--it's the same thing. And instead of coming and saying,
     "Well, wonderful. We see God in the midst of the people working. Let's do that." No,
     sir. With creed--the same thing, and--greed, rather, and with jealousy--the same
     thing that Cain has, he requires the blood of his brother. He tries to wipe him out of
     the way, get rid of him. "They're nothing but a bunch of holy-rollers. They're little..."
     See? You know what I mean. That's what starts the trouble. There's where trouble
     begins. That's where the broken vows... There's where broken fellowship separates.
     That's the thing that breaks up homes. That's the thing that starts the--the wheel a-
     moving towards divorces. That's the very thing that breaks the fellowship.
     VICTORY DAY          SIERRA VISTA AZ 63-0421



     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page186
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     13. In a conflict, a person must understand what areas they agree and disagree. In
         addition, a person must be open to others opinions, feelings, observations and
         suggestions for the reconciliation process to be effective.

     14. Some examples of conflict can be found in the following scriptures: Genesis 4, I
         Samuel 20:30-34, Matthew 15:10-20, Mark 11:11-19, Luke 23:18-49, John 8:1-
         11, John 11:11-19.


     RULES TO FOLLOW TO HELP RESOLVE CONFLICT

     [Couples should understand the following guidelines to help resolve conflict]


     1. Hear feelings, not words…attempt to be empathetic. Formula: Feelings →
        Feedback → Rebuttal

     2. Be congruent – in touch with our feelings and therefore responsible for them.

     3. Avoid “you” messages which cause another to become defensive. Use “I”
        messages.

     4. Be ready to forgive and to ask for forgiveness – real empathy will bring genuine
        apologies and repentance which will soften hearts and free us up form the slavery
        of bitterness, hostility and vindictiveness.

     5. Be responsible for personal change – do not take another’s responsibility for
        change.

     6. Stay with one issue at a time.

     7. Call “time” when the discussion becomes destructive. The person who calls time
        is responsible for arranging a new time (preferably within 24 hours) for further
        discussion once feelings have been tempered.

     8. Stay with the here and now. Avoid bringing up the past or referring to the future.

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page187
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007




     9. Never use the word “never” – always refrain from using the word “always” – in
        short, avoid generalizations.

     10. Avoid “below the belt” remarks. These are remarks that have nothing to do with
         the issue; they are only designed to hurt and their confidence. Attack the
         problem, not the person.

     11. Use the Biblical and Message approach. Approach the one (and only the one) we
         have conflict with. If they are unable to “hear / listen” meet with your pastor
         which both parties have confidence in.

     12. Avoid blaming, placating, distracting and computing…attempt instead to be an
         adult (resolve, hear feelings, be rational, logical and wise).

     13. Be loving – agape – accepting, supportive, caring – attempt to practice I
         Corinthians 13.

     14. Couples must learn to admit their shortcomings, ask for forgiveness, renounce all
         bitterness and renew their commitment.

     And my little boy, Joseph, he's just strictly a boy, and running out in school where he
     hears everything. One day when I come in, he said something another and sassed his
     mother. And--and then he run to me. Now, she knowed... He knowed he'd get a
     licking from her. So she said to me; she said, "Billy, give him a whipping."
     And he put his arms around me, said, "Daddy, I'm so sorry." He knowed my soft spot.
     And so, "Oh," I said, "honey, let's forget it. I can't..."
     And for the... Wife and I, with this Bible before me, has never had a word in our life.
     But all at once, being in that nervous time of life, she slammed the door right in my
     face. And she said, "Then you should take care of him awhile," and slammed the door
     and went in.
     I thought, "Poor little fellow. My, she has all that to go through herself."
     I walked on out, and I said, "Joseph, come on," I said. Took him, I said, "Daddy
     should give you a licking. You know that." But I said, "Being that you repented. See?
     But, remember, my--my patience is going to run out one of these days. And that--that

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page188
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     repenting, you got to bring forth fruit meets for repentance and prove to me that you
     really mean it. See? If you love me, then you'll mind me."
     91 And so I went on out, and I said, "I'll wash the dust off my windshield of my
     car." And I started out to wash that windshield.
     And as I did, a Voice said, "Turn, and tell her to read II Chronicles 22."
     I thought, "I--I just--just... I don't know how I ever thought that. I thought, "Well, I
     just imagined that," kept on washing.
     And again It come real loud, "Go, tell her." Well, It scared me.
     I went in and read it. You know what it is? It's when Miriam made fun of Moses
     about marrying an Ethiopian girl. And God said, "It was better that your father spit
     in your face, than to do that." See? And He called them in, said, "Go, get Miriam,
     she's struck with leprosy." Said, "Go, get Miriam." And Moses... And the Pillar of
     Fire came down into the tabernacle. And Moses stood there. And God talked to them.
     He said, "If there be one among you who's spiritual or a prophet, I, the Lord will
     make Myself known to him. I'll speak to him in visions, reveal dreams, and so forth."
     He said, "But My servant Moses, there's none like him in the land." He said," Didn't
     you fear God?" And Miriam, being a prophetess, was stricken with leprosy. And
     Moses interceded for her, and she lived.
     96 Then that scared me. I'd forgot. Me, I didn't--I didn't notice it, but He did. He
     was the One that noticed it. That was my wife; I'd die anytime for her. But God
     noticed it. Now, this is the truth, my Bible laying here in front of me.
     And I went in. And she'd went into the room and shut the door, was sewing on the
     sewing machine. I knocked on the door, and I said, "Sweetheart, I want to talk to you
     a minute."
     She said, "What do you want?"
     I said, "Honey, open the door right away. I got a word from the Lord." That kind of
     sobered her up a little, so she opened the door. And we come in. I said, "Sweetheart,
     now you know, as much as I love you, I--I--I never thought nothing about that."
     She said, "Well, Bill, if... I'm so nervous."
     I said, "I know. But He didn't like that. That didn't please Him. He told me right there
     in the tree, that tree there, that little palm tree in front of the house there, come in
     here and read this Scripture to you." And I read It.
     101 So help me, within a few days she took a pain in the left side. We had to go
     home. And it kept getting worse. I prayed for her: kept getting worse.


     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page189
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     I took her over to my doctor friend in Louisville, Doctor Schoen, specialist. He
     examined her, said, "Mrs. Branham, tell Brother Branham I want to see him."
     She said, "Doctor, what did you find?"
     Said, "I'd rather tell him."
     So Meda called me, and I come over. And he said, "Brother Branham, she's got a
     cyst on the left ovary about the size of a walnut."
     And I went back home with her, and I said, "You remember?"
     She said, "That happened with Brother Sharritt, if I'm not mistaken, over there in
     California. You told me that for sixteen years now."
     I said, "That's right. Now, it's just showing up."
     She said, "Billy, you think it's what I did that morning?"
     I said, "I don't know, honey; I--I just can't say." Well, we put our arms around one
     another and started weeping before the Lord. I went in the room and I prayed for her
     with all my heart.
     Doctor Schoen, I called him back; I said, "Doc, what should we do?"
     He said, "Should come out of there."
     And I said, "Just let it go a little bit."
     He said, "I'll tell you, Brother Branham; maybe I better send you up to a female
     specialist with her, a good friend. He's a Christian too."
     I said, "Well, what about you, doc?" He wanted to get it off his own hand. You see?
     He said, "I'll send you up there." He loved me, and he respected my work for the
     Lord. And he told this other doctor about it. HIS UNFAILING WORDS OF PROMISE PHOENIX AZ 64-0120


     Four years from then, Joseph came on the scene. Every time I'd pick her hand up,
     there it was again. And I said, "Check for a cyst on the left ovary."
     Joseph was born, he said, "Nope. No cyst."
     Well then, about two years ago, when we first come to here, I was all nervous and
     thinking I was going to be killed, and everything. So I--I went out there to the--was
     talking to Meda. And Joseph done something he oughtn't to have done. And he
     needed a licking. But...
     And Meda. said, "Bill..." And Meda's right in the time of menopause now, you know,
     Lee, so it's just she's forty-five years old. So... and in real nervous.


     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page190
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     So Joe done something. He really needed a licking. And so she said, "Bill, give him a
     licking for that."
     And Joe come put his arms around me, and said, "Daddy, I'm sorry. Don't give me a
     licking, please." Said, "I'm sorry."
     I said, "Oh, well. Okay, Joe, I'll take your word for it now. Don't do it no more."
     And it made Meda's dandruff get up. She--she never did this before in her life. We'd
     never had a cross word. And it... She said, "Did you ever give him a whipping?"
     I said, "Honey, him repenting like that, I couldn't do it."
     And she was real nervous. And she slammed the door right in my face. And she said,
     "Then you ought to stay home some of the time and have to take care of them." Said,
     "You won't give them a licking or nothing when they come home, and when you come
     home. And they know they can get by with it for you. Oh, he tells me that too, but he
     goes right back and does it the same anyway." Whammy, she slammed the door right
     in my face.
     Well, poor little fellow. I--I... You know, Lee, what she is. She's--she's to me the
     queen of the earth, as far as it is to me. So I thought, "Well, poor little fellow. She
     couldn't... She's just nervous." And I went on, and sent Joe on out to school. And I...
     And then I went out to wash my car. And when I started to wash my car, there come a
     voice right beside that bush, and said, "Go tell her to read..." I think it's Chronicles,
     II Chronicles. I don't know just the chapter. Anyhow, it's where Miriam made fun of
     Moses. "Go read that chapter."
     Well, I thought it was just kinda... And again It spoke. Well, I thought, maybe...
     You know how it is, Lee. I just... You can get imagination sometime. And we don't...
     That's what's the matter with people today. They get... take imagination instead of
     really be sure it's the Word of the Lord.
     And then It spoke real plain the third time. Well, I went in. And I picked up the Bible
     and read it first. It's where Miriam was mocking Moses, you know. And Miriam,
     remember, was a prophetess. And she was the one who nurtured Moses and found
     Pharaoh's daughter, you know. So...?... And her a prophetess. And she was jawing
     him about marrying that--that Ethiopian girl.
     And so it displeased God. And Miriam was stricken with leprosy. And said... told...
     said, "It would be better that her daddy would have spit in her face when she was
     born than to have done a thing like that."
     So he called... they called... Moses called God down. The Pillar of Fire stood in the
     tabernacle. And God said to Moses, "Go call Miriam and Aaron, bring them in."

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page191
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     And there was... there was Miriam, white with leprosy. And said... And God said
     such, "If there be one among you who's spiritual or a prophet, I the Lord will make
     Myself known to him by a vision and will speak to him in dreams," or however it
     reads there. And said, "But for My servant, Moses, there's none like him in the land.
     (See?) Did not you fear God?" God said to--to Miriam.
     Now, remember, that's her own brother, and her a prophetess. And Moses pleaded
     for her life, and she was healed. E-93 Now, I got scared then. And I went to Meda,
     and I said, "Meda, let me in." She had the door locked. She was setting at her sowing
     machine. I said, "Let me in, honey."
     She said, "What do you want!"
     And I said, "Sweetheart, let me in. I have a Word from the Lord for you." And so she
     let me in. Kindy sobered her up a little. And I said, "Meda, I was out there washing
     my car," and I told her the story. She got scared.
     And I got down and took her by the hand. And I said, "Lord God, please, don't let
     nothing happen."
     About two days after that, she took a severe hurting in her side, her left side. When
     we went for an examination at the doctor at home for it, he found out there was a cyst
     about the size of a lemon on the left ovary. See, I'd told him that fifteen, sixteen years
     before. It was there all the time. See? AUDIO LETTER TO LEE VAYLE TUCSON AZ 64-0500




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page192
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                     PHOENIX TABERNACLE, Inc.
                                           1241 East Baseline, Phoenix, AZ 85042
                                            COUNSELING REPORT

     DATE: ___/____/_____START TIME: ___:___________ END TIME:____:_________

     COUNSELORS:
     ______________________________________________________________________

     COUNSELEES: ______________________________________________________

     PLACE OF COUNSELING: ________________________________________________
     PURPOSE OF COUNSELING: _____________________________________________
     ________________________________________________________
     ________________________________________________________
     GIVE A BRIEF SYNOPSIS OF THE SESSION:
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________

     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page193
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________

     RECOMMENDATIONS GIVEN TO THE COUNSELEES:
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     _________________________________________________________
     ___________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     _________________________________________________________
     ___________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________
     ______________________________________________________


     This report was prepared by: _____________________________________________


     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page194
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


     REFERENCES & ADDITIONAL READINGS

     American Heritage Dictionary
     Holy Bible, Bible Link, Eagle Computing, Message Infobase, 1995 Release
     James Strong, LL.D., S.T.D, The New Strong=s Exhaustive concordance of the Bible, C1984
     John Macarthur, New Testament Commentary I & II Timothy, c 1995.
     Merriam-Webster, Incorporated 8 1999

     Oxford Dictionary
     R. Laird Harris, Gleason L. Archer, Jr., Bruce K. Waltke, Theological Wordbook of the Old
     Testament, c1980 Oxford Dictionary
     Richard Stoll Armstrong, The Pastor-Evangelist in Worship, c1986
     Ronald F. Youngblood, general editor; F.F. Bruce and R.K. Harrison, consulting editors, Nelson=s
     new illustrated Bible dictionary: An authoritative one-volume reference work on the Bible with full
     color illustrations [computer file], electronic edition of the revised edition of Nelson=s illustrated
     Bible dictionary, Logos Library System, (Nashville: Thomas Nelson) 1997, c1995.
     W.A. Criswell, Believer=s study Bible [computer file], electronic ed. , Logos Library System,
     (Nashville: Thomas Nelson) 1997, c1991 by the Criswell Center for Biblical Studies.
     Wesley J. Perschbacher, The New Analytical Greek Lexicon, 1995, c 1990.
     William Marrion Branham, Eagle Computing,, Message Infobase, 1995 Release
     WordNet 1.6 Vocabulary Helper: manual
     http://www.notredame.ac.jp/cgi-bin/wn?manual#Overview of noun manual
     Zane Publishing, Inc. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary 8 1994 by Merriam-Webster, Incorporated
     8 1995




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page195
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page196
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page197
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page198
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page199
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page200
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page201
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page202
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page203
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page204
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page205
Phoenix Tabernacle Deacon Manual                                                                     2007


                                                         NOTES




     Property of Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc. - For internal use only. Reproduction of this manual in part or in its entirety is
                          strictly prohibited without written consent from Phoenix Tabernacle, Inc.
                                                          Page206
